

CHIEF COMPLAINT: This 1-year-old female presents today for a health
maintenance exam. Patient was accompanied by mother.

The child eats 3 meals a day plus 2 snacks and is off the bottle. She sleeps
through the night. She takes morning and afternoon naps. Mother is concerned
about child's red, matted eye and not walking completely alone yet.
Immunizations need to be updated at today's visit.

 DEVELOPMENTAL MILESTONES: 1 year developmental milestones reached: bangs
blocks together, drinks from cup, eating finger foods, feeds self, gives toys
on request, imitates vocalizations, looks for dropped or hidden objects,
points to desired objects, pulls to stand and cruises, releases cube into cup
after demonstration, says  "mama" and "dada" with meaning, says one or two
other words, tries to build tower of 2 cubes and waves bye.

 ALLERGIES: No known medical allergies.

 MEDICATIONS: None.

 PMH: Past medical history is unremarkable.

 PSH: No previous surgeries.

 FAMILY HISTORY: Patient admits a family history of cancer associated with
maternal aunt, hypertension associated with paternal grandfather.

 SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives at home with parents. Patient admits being in
daycare.

 REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: No change since last visit

PHYSICAL EXAM: Temp: 97.6 Height: 0 ft. 31 in. Weight: 28 lbs. BMI: 20  
Growth Chart Entry: Weight: 28 lbs 0 ozs Height: 0 ft 31 in Head
Circumference: 18.50 in Patient is a 1 year-old female who appears in no
apparent distress, well developed and well nourished.  
Inspection of head and face shows anterior fontanel normal, posterior fontanel
normal and head is normocephalic and atraumatic.  
Eyes: Fundoscopic exam reveals red reflex is present bilaterally.  
Alignment is normal.  
Sclera is white bilaterally.  
Left inferior palpebral conjunctiva reveals conjunctivitis.  
Ocular motility exam reveals gross orthotropia with full ductions and versions
bilateral.  
ENT: Pinna: normal.  
Otoscopic examination reveals no abnormalities of external auditory canals and
tympanic membranes.  
Inspection of nose reveals no abnormalities and nares that are normal.  
Nasal mucosa moist, pink, and without mass or exudate with no abnormalities of
the septum and turbinates noted.  
Inspection of lips, gums, and palate reveals no abnormalities.  
Examination of oropharynx reveals no abnormalities and tissues pink and moist.  
Neck: Neck exam reveals no masses.  
Respiratory: Assessment of respiratory effort reveals even and nonlabored
respirations. Auscultation of lungs reveal clear lung fields and no rubs
noted.  
Cardiovascular: Heart auscultation reveals rate is regular, rhythm is regular
and no murmurs, gallop, rubs or clicks. Femoral pulses are 2 /4, bilateral.  
Abdomen: Abdomen soft, nontender, bowel sounds present x 4 without palpable
masses. Palpation of liver reveals no abnormalities. Palpation of spleen
reveals no abnormalities.  
Genitourinary: Examination of anus and perineum shows no abnormalities.  
Musculoskeletal: Inspection and palpation of bones, joints and muscles is
unremarkable.  
Muscle tone is normal.  
Skin: Skin is not pale, jaundice, or cyanotic. Skin turgor, hydration, and
texture is good. Palpation of skin shows no abnormalities.  
Neurologic/Psychiatric: Moves all extremities.

TEST & X-RAY RESULTS: Hb: 12 g/dl.

IMPRESSION: Routine well child care. Acute conjunctivitis.

PLAN: Diagnostic  & Lab Orders: Ordered blood lead.

IMMUNIZATIONS GIVEN:  
Varicella Type: IM Manufacturer: ABC Drug Co Lot: abc123 administered on
07/30/2003 by Ped, Nurse in the thigh, left.

Anticipatory Guidance for the 1 year old: Guidance given for injury and
illness prevention: keep home and car smoke, drug, and alcohol free, avoid or
limit TV viewing, use safety seat in back seat; can face forward, check home
for lead hazards, supervise near water, empty tubs, buckets, pools, supervise
near pets, mowers, driveways, streets and limit sun; use sunscreen and hat.  
Guidance on nutrition provided including: provide 3 nutritious meals, 2-3
healthy snacks daily and allow child to feed self, use cup.  
Discussed oral health.  
Guidance provided on social competence including: praise good behavior, talk,
sing, read together, encourage safe exploration, set limits (i.e. use
distraction), don't allow hitting, biting, aggressive behavior, delay toilet
training and expect curiosity about genitals.  
Discussed parent -infant interaction and family relationships.  
Return to office in 3 month (s).

PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS: Patient given information on conjunctivitis

PRESCRIPTIONS: Tobramycin ophthalmic Dosage: 0.3% ointment Sig: Apply to
both eyes QID x 5 days Dispense: 1 Refills: 0 Allow Generic: Yes

