

SUBJECTIVE: The patient is a 75-year-old female who comes in today with
concerns of having a stroke. She states she feels like she has something in
her throat. She started with some dizziness this morning and some left hand
and left jaw numbness. She said that she apparently had something about three
weeks ago where she was dizzy and ended up falling down and she saw Dr. XYZ
for that who gave her some Antivert. She said that today though she woke up in
the middle of the night and her left hand was numb and she was having numbness
on the left side of her face, as well as the left side of her neck. She said
she had an earache a day or so ago. She has not had any cold symptoms.

ALLERGIES: Demerol and codeine.

MEDICATIONS: Lotensin, Lopid, metoprolol, and Darvocet.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient says that she feels little bit nauseated at
times. She denies chest pain or shortness of breath and again feels like she
has something in her throat. She has been able to swallow liquids okay. She
said that she did brush her teeth this morning and did not have any fluid
dripping out of her mouth. She does say that she occasionally has numbness in
her left hand prior to today.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
General: She is awake and alert, no acute distress.  
Vital Signs: Blood pressure: 175/86. Temperature: She is afebrile. Pulse: 78.
Respiratory rate: 20. O2 sat: 93% on room air.  
HEENT: Her TMs are normal bilaterally. Posterior pharynx is unremarkable. It
should be noted that her uvula did not deviate and neither did her tongue.
When she smiles though she has some drooping of the left side of her face, as
well as some mild nasolabial fold flattening.  
Neck: Without adenopathy or thyromegaly. Carotids pulses are brisk without
bruits.  
Lungs: Clear to auscultation.  
Heart: Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  
Extremities: Her muscle strength is symmetrical and intact bilaterally. DTRs
are 2+/4+ bilaterally and muscle strength is intact in the upper extremities.
She has a positive Tinel