

PROCEDURE: Diagnostic fiberoptic bronchoscopy.

ANESTHESIA: Plain lidocaine 2% was given intrabronchially for local
anesthesia.

PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS:  
1. Lortab (10 mg) plus Phenergan (25 mg), p.o. 1 hour before the procedure.  
2. Versed a total of 5 mg given IV push during the procedure.

INDICATIONS: Right upper lobe lung mass, posterior segment.

Consent obtained from the patient's daughter.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After appropriate sedation was achieved, the
bronchoscope was introduced via the right nares and advanced to the upper
larynx. Plain lidocaine 2% was used to anesthetize the laryngeal structures.
After adequate anesthesia was achieved, close inspection of the laryngeal
structures could be performed. Both vocal cords moved appropriately. Under
direct visualization, the bronchoscope was advanced past the vocal cords and
into the distal trachea. Additional 2% plain lidocaine was used in the trachea
and the main stem bronchi for anesthesia. After adequate anesthesia was
achieved, close inspection of the airways could be undertaken. The left
tracheobronchial tree was inspected closely to the level of the subsegmental
bronchi. All bronchi are patent with no endobronchial lesions and no mucosal
lesions noted. The right tracheobronchial tree was also patent and intact with
the mucosa normal. The bronchoscope was then introduced to the right upper
lobe specifically to the posterior segment and washings/brushings and
transbronchial lung biopsies were taken from that area. He had quite a bit of
coughing during the diagnostic procedures despite lidocaine administration. A
total of 5 mg of Versed was used to effect sedation. At one point, the
bronchoscope had to be completely withdrawn so that the sample could be
appropriately retrieved. Upon reintroduction, there was quite a bit of
bleeding in his right nares. The right naris was packed for control of the
bleeding. The procedure was completed and all samples were submitted for
appropriate studies. A post procedure chest x-ray has been obtained and is
still pending. He tolerated the procedure very well other then for the brisk
epistaxis from the right nares. Packing to the right nares has been completed.