

HISTORY OF PRESENT COMPLAINT: Ms. Abc initially visited our office for the
purpose of consultation and examination on December 1, 2004. Ms. Abc states
that on November 16, 2004, she was in a parking lot, she was walking to her
car, and stepped into a pothole. The patient reports that she fell backwards.
The patient landed on her back and hit her head as well. The patient reports
sudden, severe left ankle pain and low back pain as well as neck pain in the
back of her head. The patient was unable to get up due to severe pain. The
patient was afraid that she broke her left ankle. The patient eventually got
up and went to her car. The patient went home and symptoms got worse. A few
days later, the patient went to the hospital on November 21, 2004. The patient
had x-rays of the lumbar spine, left ankle, and left foot. The patient was
seen at Healthcare System. She was next seen by Rapid Rehabilitation on
December 1, 2004.

PRESENT COMPLAINT: She presents today complaining of moderate to severe
low back pain, neck pain, and left ankle pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Ms. Abc states that before the accident on the above
date, she would describe her health as good without disability. She denies any
previous trauma to the lumbar, cervical, or left ankle.

SURGICAL HISTORY: None.

MEDICATIONS: None.

ALLERGIES: No known allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The examination reveals a 51-year-old female. The
heart is regular and the lungs are clear. The abdominal examination is within
normal limits. Pulses are present for both upper and lower extremities.

HEAD AND TEMPOROMANDIBULAR JOINTS: There was no indication of facial
bruises or scars of any kind. Examination of the temporomandibular apparatus
was unremarkable. Jaw jerk reflexes were within normal limits.

CERVICAL SPINE: Ranges of motion of the cervical spine were limited by
guarding and pain in most planes. Pain was exacerbated with right lateral
flexion and right rotation contralaterally. Tenderness to digital pressure was
noted throughout the neck, especially in the paravertebral musculature.
Hypertonicity was also present. Tenderness was noted bilaterally over the
articular pillars. The following special tests were positive: Compression test
and shoulder distraction test reproduced the patient 's complaint.

THORACOLUMBAR SPINE: Ranges of motion in the thoracolumbar region revealed
moderate pain with flexion, extension, lateral bending, and rotation.
Tenderness to digital pressure was noted at L4/L5/S1 disc interspace and at
the lumbar paraspinal muscles bilaterally. Examination of the mid back
revealed mid scapular tenderness left sided, and hypertonicity at the left
rhomboids, major and minor. The following special tests were positive: Kemp's
and straight leg raise on the left.

EXTREMITIES: Ranges of motion of all major joints in the upper and lower
extremities are within normal limits. Examination of the left ankle shows
edema and pain with ankle flexion/extension.

NEUROLOGIC EXAMINATION: Neurologic evaluation revealed the patient to be
oriented x 3 and alert. Her speech was fluent and comprehension was excellent.
Cranial nerves II through XII were found intact. Pupils were round, regular,
equal, and reactive to light. No nystagmus was observed. Hearing was within
normal limits. Motor test showed 5/5 strength throughout without drift,
atrophy, or fasciculations. Muscle tone was within normal limits. Sensory
examination showed no loss of pin, touch, proprioception, or vibration. All
dermatomal levels of the upper and lower extremities tested equal.
Dysdiadochokinesia and joint positioning senses were normal indicating no
cerebellar dysfunction. No pathologic reflexes were elected. The gait was
difficult due to the patient 's ankle pain. The patient was unable to do any
weightbearing onto her left foot due to her severe pain. Deep tendon reflexes
were 1/2+ equal and bilateral in the upper and lower extremities with both
toes downgoing.

RADIOGRAPHIC EXAMINATION: Radiographs were taken at Healthcare System on
November 21, 2004. X-ray, two views of the lumbar spine, were taken. Two views
of the lumbar spine demonstrate a grade I spondylolisthesis of L5 over S1. No
acute fracture. Grade I spondylolisthesis and bilateral spondylosis at L5-S1
as described on previous MRI examination of January 28, 2004. X-ray of the
left ankle report that there are no significant abnormalities demonstrated.
There is no evidence of soft tissue swelling, arthritis, fractures, or
effusion. Three-view of the left foot demonstrates calcaneal spurs. No acute
fracture.

IMPRESSION:  
1. Lumbar intervertebral disc disorder with possible myelopathy.  
2. Ankle sprain/strain, grade III.  
3. Cervical sprain/strain.  
4. Thoracic sprain/strain.

PLAN AND PROGNOSIS: The prognosis for Ms. Abc is good. At this time, a
program of chiropractic adjustments, physical therapy, and massage will be
rendered for a period of four weeks. Treatment will include physical therapy,
massage, hot packs, electrical stimulation, and adjustments to the lumbar,
cervical, thoracic spine as well as the left ankle.