

REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Newly diagnosed cholangiocarcinoma.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a very pleasant 77-year-old
female who is noted to have an increase in her liver function tests on routine
blood work in December 2009. Ultrasound of the abdomen showed gallbladder
sludge and gallbladder findings consistent with adenomyomatosis. Common bile
duct was noted to be 10 mm in size on that ultrasound. She then underwent a CT
scan of the abdomen in July 2010, which showed intrahepatic ductal dilatation
with the common bile duct size being 12.7 mm. She then underwent an MRI MRCP,
which was notable for stricture of the distal common bile duct. She was then
referred to gastroenterology and underwent an ERCP. On August 24, 2010, she
underwent the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. She was noted to
have a stricturing mass of the mid-to-proximal common bile duct consistent
with cholangiocarcinoma. A temporary biliary stent was placed across the
biliary stricture. Blood work was obtained during the hospitalization. She was
also noted to have an elevated CA99. She comes in to clinic today for initial
Medical Oncology consultation. After she sees me this morning, she has a
follow-up consultation with a surgeon.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension and hyperlipidemia. In
July, she had eye surgery on her left eye for a muscle repair. Other surgeries
include left ankle surgery for a fractured ankle in 2000.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Diovan 80/12.5 mg daily, Lipitor 10 mg daily, Lutein
20 mg daily, folic acid 0.8 mg daily and multivitamin daily.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for heart disease. She had three brothers that
died of complications from open heart surgery. Her parents and brothers all
had hypertension. Her younger brother died at the age of 18 of infection from
a butcher 's shop. He was cutting Argentinean beef and contracted an infection
and died within 24 hours. She has one brother that is living who has angina
and a sister who is 84 with dementia. She has two adult sons who are in good
health.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has been married to her second husband for the
past ten years. Her first husband died in 1995. She does not have a smoking
history and does not drink alcohol.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient reports a change in her bowels ever since
she had the stent placed. She has noted some weight loss, but she notes that
that is due to not eating very well. She has had some mild fatigue, but prior
to her diagnosis she had absolutely no symptoms. As mentioned above, she was
noted to have abnormal alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin, AST and ALT,
which prompted the followup. She has had some difficulty with her vision that
has improved with her recent surgical procedure. She denies any fevers,
chills, night sweats. She has had loose stools. The rest of her review of
systems is negative.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  
VITALS: BP: 108/60. HEART RATE: 80. TEMP: 98.5. Weight: 75 kg.  
GEN: She is a very pleasant female, in no acute distress.  
HEENT: She has obvious strabismus of the left eye with medial deviation. Her
pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Oropharynx is clear.  
NECK: Supple. She has no cervical or supraclavicular adenopathy.  
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  
CV: Regular rate; normal S1, S2, no murmurs.  
ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender, and nondistended. No palpable masses. No
hepatosplenomegaly.  
EXT: Lower extremities are without edema.

LABORATORY STUDIES: Sodium 141, glucose 111, total bilirubin 2.3, alkaline
phosphatase 941, AST 161, and ALT 220. White blood cell count 4.3, hemoglobin
11.6, hematocrit 35, and platelets 156,000. Total bilirubin from August 25,
2010 was 1.6, alkaline phosphatase 735, AST 123, ALT 184, CA99 is 109. Bile
duct brushings are notable for atypical cell clusters present, highly
suspicious for carcinoma.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN: This is a very pleasant 77-year-old female who has
findings suspicious for a cholangiocarcinoma. The patient was referred to our
office to discuss this diagnosis. I spent greater than an hour with the
patient and her husband discussing this potential diagnosis, reviewing the
anatomy and answering questions. She is yet to have a surgical consultation,
and we discussed the difficulty that we sometimes have with patients meeting
surgical criteria to manage cholangiocarcinoma. The patient also had questions
about the Medical University and possibly seeking a second opinion. She will
contact our office after her surgical consultation if she needs assistance
with obtaining a second opinion. We also talked about our clinical research
program here. Currently, we do have a Phase II Study for advanced gallbladder
carcinoma or cholangiocarcinoma for patients that are unresectable. We will go
ahead and provide her with a consent form so that she can look that over and
it will give her some more information about the malignancy and treatment
approaches. We will schedule her for followup in three weeks. We will also
schedule her for PET/CT scan for staging.