

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:  
1. Recurrent bladder tumor.  
2. History of bladder carcinoma.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lateral wall bladder tumor of 1.5 cm in
size.

PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  
1. Cystourethroscopy.  
2. Bilateral retrograde pyelogram.  
3. Transurethral resection of bladder tumor of 1.5 cm in size.

ANESTHESIA: IV general.

SPECIMEN: UA for culture and cytology as well as the resecting bladder
tumor specimen.

INDICATIONS: This is a 52-year-old white female with a history of
transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with previous transurethral
resection of the bladder, low grade. The patient had on serial cystoscopy
evidence of recurrent bladder tumor at the right posterior wall. CT and IVP
were performed and there was some question at the distal ureters. Risks,
benefits, and alternatives were discussed with the patient. The informed
consent was on the chart at the time of procedure.

PROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient did receive Levaquin antibiotics prior to
the procedure. She was then wheeled to the Operative Suite and general
anesthetic was administered. She was prepped and draped in the usual sterile
fashion and placed in a dorsal lithotomy position. Next, with a #21 French
cystoscope, cystourethroscopy was performed. Upon entering the bladder, the
urethra was noted to be free of any stones, strictures, diverticulum, or
calculi. The bladder was then surveyed. The trigone appeared normal. The
ureteral orifices were in normal location and noted efflux of clear yellow
urine.

The reminder of the bladder was then surveyed. There were some areas of
blanched scar tissue from previous resection. Of note, there was a exophytic
bladder tumor on the right posterior wall approximately 1.5 cm in diameter.
There was no other evidence of recurrent disease, strictures, or calculi.
Next, with a #6 French open-ended ureteral catheter, right retrograde
pyelogram was performed. The right ureter was noted to uptake contrast freely
and there was no evidence of stone, stricture, diverticulum, calculi or
filling defects along the entire course of the ureter including the
pelvicaliceal system. The catheter was removed and inserted into the left
ureteral orifice and once again this appeared to be entirely normal left
collecting system with no evidence of stone, stricture, diverticulum, filling
defect or other tumor. The bladder was drained and irrigant was switched to
glycine and then using the #26 French resectoscope this was assembled and
passed into the bladder via the visual obturator. After entering the bladder,
the EndoSheath equipped with a _______ resection loop was inserted. The power
settings were set at 100 cut and 40 coag and the bladder tumor of the right
posterior wall was then resected in its entirety and the entire tumor bed and
lateral margins were then fulgurated with cautery. There was no evidence of
tumor at the end of the resection. The specimens were collected and then
passed off for pathological evaluation. The bladder was then drained and the
procedure was terminated. The plan would be for the patient to be discharged
home with Levaquin, Urised, and Vicodin. She is to follow up with Dr. X on
09/12/03 at 02:30 p.m. where we will review the pathology and possibly discuss
BCG rather intravesical agent being the recurrent nature of this disease.