

HISTORY: The patient is a 51-year-old status post C3-C4 anterior cervical
discectomy and fusion in 1986 and again in 1994. She had excellent response to
those surgeries. She was pain free until about a year ago when she started
noticing pain in her neck, both shoulders, and down her right arm. Around the
same time she also noticed low back pain radiating down the posterior aspect
of the right leg into her right foot. She noticed weakness in the right hand
especially with opening bottles, etc. The weakness has improved somewhat. She
feels that her pain is worsening. She denies any left arm or leg symptoms. No
change in bladder function. Over the last year she states that she has
undergone physical therapy as well as steroid injections in her neck, but
these were not effective. She states her right upper extremity symptoms are
more severe than the lower extremity symptoms.

She has an extensive past medical history of rheumatoid arthritis,
fibromyalgia, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and irritable bowel
syndrome. She has also had bilateral carpal tunnel release.

On examination, normal range of movement of C-spine. She has full strength in
upper and lower extremities. Normal straight leg raising. Reflexes are 2 and
symmetric throughout. No Babinski. She has numbness to light touch in her
right big toe.

NERVE CONDUCTION STUDIES: The right median palmar sensory distal latencies are
minimally prolonged with minimally attenuated evoked response amplitude.
Bilateral tibial motor nerves could not be obtained (technical). The remaining
nerves tested revealed normal distal latencies, evoked response amplitudes,
conduction velocities, F-waves, and H. reflexes.

NEEDLE EMG: Needle EMG was performed on the right arm and leg and lumbosacral
and cervical paraspinal muscles and the left FDI. It revealed 2+ spontaneous
activity in the right APB and FDI and 1+ spontaneous activity in lower
cervical paraspinals, lower and middle lumbosacral paraspinals, right extensor
digitorum communis muscle, and right pronator teres. There was evidence of
chronic denervation in the right first dorsal interosseous, pronator teres,
abductor pollicis brevis, and left first dorsal interosseous.

IMPRESSION: This electrical study is abnormal. It reveals the following:  
1. An active right C8/T1 radiculopathy. Electrical abnormalities are
moderate.  
2. An active right C6/C7 radiculopathy. Electrical abnormalities are mild.  
3. Evidence of chronic left C8/T1 denervation. No active denervation.  
4. Mild right lumbosacral radiculopathies. This could not be further
localized because of normal EMG testing in the lower extremity muscles.  
5. There is evidence of mild sensory carpal tunnel on the right (she has had
previous carpal tunnel release).

Results were discussed with the patient. It appears that she has failed
conservative therapy and I have recommended to her that she return to Dr. X
for his assessment for possible surgery to her C-spine. She will continue with
conservative therapy for the mild lumbosacral radiculopathies.