

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  
1. Stage IIIC endometrial cancer.  
2. Adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin, Adriamycin, and Abraxane.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 47-year-old female who was
noted to have abnormal vaginal bleeding in the fall of 2009. In March 2010,
she had an abnormal endometrial ultrasound with thickening of the endometrium
and an enlarged uterus. CT scan of the abdomen on 03/22/2010 showed an
enlarged uterus, thickening of the endometrium, and a mass structure in the
right and left adnexa that was suspicious for ovarian metastasis. On
04/01/2010, she had a robotic modified radical hysterectomy with bilateral
salpingo-oophorotomy and appendectomy with pelvic and periaortic
lymphadenectomy. The pathology was positive for grade III endometrial
adenocarcinoma, 9.5 cm in size with 2 cm of invasion. Four of 30 lymph nodes
were positive for disease. The left ovary was positive for metastatic disease.
Postsurgical PET/CT scan showed left lower pelvic side wall seroma and
hypermetabolic abdominal and right pelvic retroperitoneal lymph nodes
suspicious for metastatic disease. The patient has completed five of planned
six cycles of chemotherapy and comes in to clinic today for followup. Of note,
we had sent off genetic testing which was denied back in June. I have been
trying to get this testing completed.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Synthroid q.d., ferrous sulfate 325 mg b.i.d.,
multivitamin q.d., Ativan 0.5 mg q.4 hours p.r.n. nausea and insomnia,
gabapentin one tablet at bedtime.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient reports feeling weaker after this last
cycle. She continues to have neuropathy in her feet recorded as a great line
neuropathy. She tried taking two gabapentin for the neuropathy made her
nauseous and somnolent. She does much better with one tablet. Her family
noticed hearing problems. She was a due to have a hearing test on 08/04/10 but
had to reschedule. She was out of town. The patient personally does not note
problems with her hearing. She denies any fevers, chills, or night sweats,
chest pain, or shortness of breath. The rest of her review of system is
negative.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  
VITALS: BP: 100/56. HEART RATE: 84. TEMP: 97.8. Weight: 75 kg.  
GEN: She has patchy alopecia.  
HEENT: Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Sclerae are anicteric.
Oropharynx is clear. She has no stomatitis.  
NECK: Supple. She has no cervical or supraclavicular adenopathy.  
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  
CV: Regular rate; normal S1, S2, no murmurs.  
ABDOMEN: Soft. He has positive bowel sounds. No hepatosplenomegaly.  
EXT: Lower extremities are without edema.  
SKIN: She has no skin rash.

LABORATORY DATA: White blood cell count is 5.3, hemoglobin 11, hematocrit
32.2, and platelets 273,000. Sodium 137, potassium 3.4, chloride 105, CO2 24,
BUN 12, creatinine 0.75, glucose 144, calcium 9.4, total protein 7.5, albumin
3.9, total bilirubin 0.4, alkaline phosphatase 67, AST 33, ALT 23, magnesium
1.9, CEA 1257.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN: This is a very pleasant 47-year-old female with stage
IIIC adenocarcinoma of the endometrial cancer. She has completed five of a
planned six cycles of chemotherapy with doxorubicin, cisplatin, and Abraxane.
She is slightly anemic after this last treatment and is feeling weaker. Most
of this is cumulative effects of treatment. She is experiencing some
neuropathy. With the Abraxane we tend to see more intensive neuropathy during
treatment with improved resolution once treatment is completed. Her
chemotherapy toxicities remain minimal. We will plan to proceed with cycle #6.
I will see her back in the clinic after the sixth cycle. We will plan to
repeat PET/CT scan about a month after she completes her sixth cycle and then
she will followup with Dr. X in radiation oncology to further discuss
radiation options.