

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 61-year-old right-handed
gentleman who presents for further evaluation of feet and hand cramps. He
states that for the past six months he has experienced cramps in his feet and
hands. He describes that the foot cramps are much more notable than the hand
ones. He reports that he develops muscle contractions of his toes on both
feet. These occur exclusively at night. They may occur about three times per
week. When he develops these cramps, he stands up to relieve the discomfort.
He notices that the toes are in an extended position. He steps on the ground
and they seem to  "pop into place." He develops calf pain after he experiences
the cramp. Sometimes they awaken him from his sleep.

He also has developed cramps in his hands although they are less severe and
less frequent than those in his legs. These do not occur at night and are
completely random. He notices that his thumb assumes a flexed position and
sometimes he needs to pry it open to relieve the cramp.

He has never had any symptoms like this in the past. He started taking Bactrim
about nine months ago. He had taken this in the past briefly, but has never
taken it as long as he has now. He cannot think of any other possible
contributing factors to his symptoms.

He has a history of HIV for 21 years. He was taking antiretroviral
medications, but stopped about six or seven years ago. He reports that he was
unable to tolerate the medications due to severe stomach upset. He has a CD4
count of 326. He states that he has never developed AIDS. He is considering
resuming antiretroviral treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: He has diabetes, but this is well controlled. He
also has hepatitis C and HIV.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: He takes insulin and Bactrim.

ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY: He lives alone. He recently lost his partner. This
happened about six months ago. He denies alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drug
use. He is now retired. He is very active and walks about four miles every few
days.

FAMILY HISTORY: His father and mother had diabetes.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: A complete review of systems was obtained and was
negative except for as mentioned above. This is documented in the handwritten
notes from today 's visit.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
Vital Signs: Blood pressure 130/70 HR 80 RR 18 Wt 153 pounds  
General Appearance: Patient is well appearing, in no acute distress.  
Cardiovascular: There is a regular rhythm without murmurs, gallops, or rubs.
There are no carotid bruits.  
Chest: The lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.  
Skin: There are no rashes or lesions.  
Musculoskeletal: There are no joint deformities or scoliosis.

NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:  
Mental Status: Speech is fluent without dysarthria or aphasia. The patient is
alert and oriented to name, place, and date. Attention, concentration,
registration, recall, and fund of knowledge are all intact.

Cranial Nerves: Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation. Optic discs are normal. Visual fields are full. Extraocular
movements are intact without nystagmus. Facial sensation is normal. There is
no facial, jaw, palate, or tongue weakness. Hearing is grossly intact.
Shoulder shrug is full.

Motor: There is normal muscle bulk and tone. There is no atrophy or
fasciculations. There is no action or percussion myotonia or paramyotonia.
Manual muscle testing reveals MRC grade 5/5 strength in all proximal and
distal muscles of the upper and lower extremities.

Sensory: Sensation is intact to light touch, pinprick, temperature, vibratory
sensation, and joint position sense. Romberg is absent.

Coordination: There is no dysmetria or ataxia on finger-nose-finger or heel-
to-shin testing.

Reflexes: Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ at the biceps, triceps, brachioradialis,
patellas and ankles. Plantar reflexes are flexor. There are no finger flexors,
Hoffman's sign, or jaw jerk.

Gait and Stance: Casual gait is normal. Heel, toe, and tandem walking are all
normal.

LABORATORY DATA: August 06, 2008: Glucose 122. BUN 23. CR 1.16. Ca 7.8. K
4.6. Na 135. ALT 85. AST 192. HIV positive. Hemoglobin A1c 5.5. CD4 326. HPV
positive. HCT 37.9. PLT 129. ESR 34.

ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 61-year-old gentleman with a longstanding
history of HIV, who developed a recent history of nocturnal cramps in his feet
and less frequent cramps in his hands. His neurological examination today is
normal. I think it is possible that the cramps are related to the Bactrim.
This is a very rare side effect, but it has been reported in the literature
that patients can develop cramps due to this medication. He does not have any
obvious metabolic abnormalities such as hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, or
hypokalemia that can cause muscle cramps. He also does not have any evidence
of an underlying neuromuscular disorder as I would expect him to have weakness
or other abnormalities if this were the case. Certain metabolic myopathies can
be associated with normal neurological examination and muscle cramps. This can
be seen in the HIV patients who are taking antiretrovirals, but he has not
been taking any of these medications for a long time.

RECOMMENDATIONS:  
1. I think that he should try to stop taking the Bactrim and see if his
symptoms improve. I told him that I would defer to his primary care physician
for this option. Specifically, if there is another medication that he could
take instead of Bactrim, this would be most desirable. He will discuss this
with his primary care physician. If he cannot stop the medication, then I am
not sure we would figure out if this is a true cause.  
2. I gave him a prescription for Neurontin. I discussed the side effects of
the medication with the patient. I instructed him to slowly taper the dose
over several days to 300 mg t.i.d. I am hopeful this will provide some
symptomatic relief. If this does not, I would consider starting on baclofen.  
3. If he stops taking the medication and his pain improves, then I would
consider pulling back on the Neurontin and seeing if he is completely
asymptomatic. However, if he continues to be symptomatic despite stopping
Bactrim, then I would consider performing further diagnostic testing such as
an EMG and nerve conduction studies and ordering additional serologic testing
such as a CPK.