

S - An 84-year-old diabetic female, 5 '7-1/2" tall, 148 pounds, history of
hypertension and diabetes. She presents today with complaint of a very painful
left foot because of the lesions on the bottom of the foot. She also has a
left great toenail that is giving her problems as well.

O - Plantar to the left first metatarsal head is a very panful
hyperkeratotic lesion that measures 1.1 cm in diameter. There is a second
lesion plantar to the fifth plantarflex metatarsal head which also measures
1.1 cm in diameter. These lesions have become so painful that the patient is
now having difficulty walking wearing shoes or even doing gardening. The first
and fifth metatarsal heads are plantarflexed. Vibratory sensation appears to
be absent. Dorsal pedal pulses are nonpalpable. Varicose veins are visible to
the skin on the patient's feet that are very thin, almost transparent. The
medial aspect of the left great toenail has dried blood under the nail. The
nail itself is very opaque, loose from the nailbed almost rotten, opaque,
discolored, hypertrophic. All of the patient's toenails are elongated and
discolored and opaque as well. There is dried blood under the medial aspect of
the left great toenail.

A - 1. Painful feet.  
2. Painful plantar lesions.  
3. Painful benign lesions.  
4. Plantarflex metatarsal heads.  
5. Onychocryptosis.  
6. Onychomycosis.  
7. Onychogryphosis.  
8. Diabetes.

P - Aseptic technique was used and the benign lesions were excised from
the area plantar to the first and fifth left plantarflexed metatarsal heads.
The medial aspect of the left great toenail was excised where the portion of
the nail matrix blood loss was less than 5 cc. Hemostasis was achieved. The
wounds were dressed with Neosporin ointment and absorbent dressing. The
patient's remaining nine toenails required manual as well as electric
debridement. "How to Care for Your Toe after Ingrown Nail Surgery" pamphlet
was given to the patient with instructions to soak her foot in warm Epsom
salts water b.i.d and to use no hydrogen peroxide and to use no Band-Aid on
the toe, but to use an absorbent gauze dressing and a small amount of
Neosporin ointment. I have also prescribed for the patient accommodative
prescription diabetic orthotics and shoes within the combination for the first
and fifth left metatarsal heads. She is to follow up at this office in one
week for a recheck visit.