

The patient is a 56-year-old female who presented to the bariatric surgery
service for consideration of laparoscopic roux en Y gastric bypass surgery.
She states that she has been overweight for most of her life. She attributes
that to eating large portions and eating too much as well as emotional eating.
She has tried multiple weight loss modalities in the past including Weight
Watchers, Medifast, Meridia, South Beach, cabbage, rice, Atkins diets without
any long-term sustainable weight loss. At the time of presentation to the
practice she is 5 ft 6 inches tall with a weight of 257.4 pounds and a body
mass index of 41.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension. The patient takes
hydrochlorothiazide for this. She also suffers from high cholesterol and takes
Crestor. She also has dry eyes and uses Restasis for this. She denies liver
disease, kidney disease, cirrhosis, hepatitis, diabetes mellitus, thyroid
disease, bleeding disorders, prior DVT, HIV and gout. She also denies cardiac
disease and prior history of cancer.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for tubal ligation in 1993. She had a
hysterectomy done in 2000 and a gallbladder resection done in 2002.

MEDICATIONS: Crestor 20 mg p.o. daily, hydrochlorothiazide 20 mg p.o.
daily, Veramist spray 27.5 mcg daily, Restasis twice a day and ibuprofen two
to three times a day.

ALLERGIES TO MEDICATIONS: Bactrim which causes a rash. The patient denies
latex allergy.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a life long nonsmoker. She only drinks
socially one to two drinks a month. She is employed as a manager at the New
York department of taxation. She is married with four children.

FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for type II diabetes on her mother 's side as
well as liver and heart failure. She has one sibling that suffers from high
cholesterol and high triglycerides.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for hot flashes. She also complains about
snoring and occasional slight asthma. She does complain about peripheral ankle
swelling and heartburn. She also gives a history of hemorrhoids and bladder
infections in the past. She has weight bearing joint pain as well as low back
degenerating discs. She denies obstructive sleep apnea, kidney stones, bloody
bowel movements, ulcerative colitis, Crohn 's disease, dark tarry stools and
melena.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On examination temperature is 97.7, pulse 84, blood
pressure 126/80, respiratory rate was 20. Well nourished, well developed in no
distress. Eye exam, pupils equal round and reactive to light. Extraocular
motions intact. Neuro exam deep tendon reflexes 1+ in the lower extremities.
No focal neuro deficits noted. Neck exam nonpalpable thyroid, midline trachea,
no cervical lymphadenopathy, no carotid bruit. Lung exam clear breath sounds
throughout without rhonchi or wheezes however diminished. Cardiac exam regular
rate and rhythm without murmur or bruit. Abdominal exam positive bowel sounds,
soft, nontender, obese, nondistended abdomen. No palpable tenderness. No right
upper quadrant tenderness. No organomegaly appreciated. No obvious hernias
noted. Lower extremity exam +1 edema noted. Positive dorsalis pedis pulses.

ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 56-year-old female who presents to the
bariatric surgery service with a body mass index of 41 with obesity related
comorbidities. The patient is interested in gastric bypass surgery. The
patient appears to be an excellent candidate and would benefit greatly in the
management of her comorbidities.

PLAN: In preparation for surgery will obtain the usual baseline laboratory
values including baseline vitamin levels. Will proceed with our usual work up
with an upper GI series as well as consultations with the dietician and the
psychologist preoperatively. I have recommended six weeks of Medifast for the
patient to obtain a 10% preoperative weight loss.