

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Abdominal pain and discomfort for 3 weeks.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 38 year old white female
with no known medical problems who presents complaining of abdominal pain and
discomfort for 3 weeks. She had been in her normal state of health when she
started having this diffuse abdominal pain and discomfort which is mostly
located in the epigastrium and right upper quadrant. She also complains of
indigestion and right scapular pain during this same period. None of these
complaints are alleviated or aggravated by food. She denies any NSAIDs use.
The patient went to an outside hospital where a right upper quadrant
ultrasound showed no gallbladder disease, but was suspicious for a liver mass.
A CT and MRI of the abdomen and pelvis showed a 12.5 X 10.9 X 11.1 cm right
suprarenal mass and a 7.1 X 5.4 X 6.5 cm intrahepatic mass in the region of
the dome of the liver. CT of the chest revealed multiple small ( <5 mm)
bilateral lung nodules. Total body bone scan had no abnormal uptake. She was
transferred to Methodist for further care.

The patient reports having a good appetite and denies any weight loss. She
denies having any fever or chills. She has noticed increasing dyspnea with
moderate exercise, but not at rest. She denies having palpitations. She
occasionally has nausea, but no vomiting, constipation, or diarrhea. Over the
last 2 months, she has noticed increasing facial hair and a mustache.

There is an extensive family history of colon and other cancers in her family.
She was told there is a genetic defect in her family but cannot recall the
name of the syndrome. She had a colonoscopy and a polyp removed at the age of
14 years old. Her last colonoscopy was 2 months ago and was unremarkable.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY : None. No history of hypertension, diabetes, heart
disease, liver disease or cancer.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Bilateral tubal ligation in 2001, colon polyp
removed at 14 years old.

GYN HISTORY: Gravida 2, Para 2, Ab 0. Menstrual periods have been regular,
last menstrual period almost 1 month ago. No menorrhagia. Never had a
mammogram. Has yearly Pap smears which have all been normal.

FAMILY HISTORY: Mother is 61 years old and brother is 39 years old,
both alive and well. Father died at 48 of colon cancer and questionable
pancreatic cancer. One paternal uncle died at 32 of colon cancer and bile duct
cancer. One paternal uncle had colon cancer in his 40s. Thirty cancers are
noted on the father