

PROBLEM: Rectal bleeding, positive celiac sprue panel.

HISTORY: The patient is a 19-year-old Irish-Greek female who ever since
elementary school has noted diarrhea, constipation, cramping, nausea,
vomiting, bloating, belching, abdominal discomfort, change in bowel habits.
She noted that her symptoms were getting increasingly worse and so she went
for evaluation and was finally tested for celiac sprue and found to have a
positive tissue transglutaminase as well as antiendomysial antibody. She has
been on a gluten-free diet for approximately one week now and her symptoms are
remarkably improved. She actually has none of these symptoms since starting
her gluten-free diet. She has noted intermittent rectal bleeding with
constipation, on the toilet tissue. She feels remarkably better after starting
a gluten-free diet.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

OPERATIONS: She is status post a tonsillectomy as well as ear tubes.

ILLNESSES: Questionable kidney stone.

MEDICATIONS: None.

HABITS: No tobacco. No ethanol.

SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives by herself. She currently works in a dental
office.

FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for a mother who is in good health, a father who
has joint problems and questionable celiac disease as well. She has two
sisters and one brother. One sister interestingly has inflammatory arthritis.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Notable for fever, fatigue, blurred vision, rash and
itching; her GI symptoms that were discussed in the HPI are actually resolved
in that she started the gluten-free diet. She also notes headaches, anxiety,
heat and cold intolerance, excessive thirst and urination. Please see symptoms
summary sheet dated April 18, 2005.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: She is a well-developed pleasant 19 female.
She has a blood pressure of 120/80, a pulse of 70, she weighs 170 pounds. She
has anicteric sclerae. Pink conjunctivae. PERRLA. ENT: MMM. NECK: Supple.
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. ABDOMEN: Soft,
nondistended and nontender. Good bowel sounds. RECTAL: She has no external
hemorrhoids and no probable internal hemorrhoids on exam. LYMPH: No cervical
lymphadenopathy. EXTREMITIES: No edema. No rash. NEURO/PSYCH: Orientation,
memory, motor and gait are intact.

IMPRESSION/PLAN: The patient is a 19-year-old female with what appears to
be celiac sprue, that is markedly improved on a gluten-free diet. I discussed
with her and her mother that the gold standard really is a small bowel biopsy,
but she would have to go back on her gluten diet to obtain the study. At this
point in time, she does not seem to be quite interested in that as she feels
to be markedly better for the first time in many years. I have given her a
handout regarding celiac disease as well as a gluten-free diet and we will go
ahead and obtain a small bowel follow through as it seems as if she has had
symptoms for many years. We will check a TSH as well as a CBC to make sure she
is not anemic and secondary to the rectal bleeding and a sister with
inflammatory arthritis, we will go ahead and check a flexible sigmoidoscopy to
make sure there are no signs of inflammatory bowel disease.