

REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Newly diagnosed head and neck cancer.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a very pleasant 61-year-old
gentleman who was recently diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of the base
of the tongue bilaterally and down extension into the right tonsillar fossa.
He was also noted to have palpable level 2 cervical lymph nodes. His staging
is T3 N2c M0 Stage IV invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
The patient comes in to the clinic today after radiation Oncology
consultation. His Otolaryngologist performed a direct laryngoscopy with biopsy
on July 29, 2010. The patient reports that in December-January timeframe, he
had noted some difficulty swallowing and ear pain. He had a work up by his
local physician that was relatively negative, and he was treated for
gastroesophageal reflux disease. His symptoms continued to progress, and he
developed difficulty with his speech, dysphagia, otalgia and odynophagia. He
was then referred to Dr. X and examination revealed a mass at the right base
of the tongue that extended across the midline to include the left base of the
tongue as well as posterior extension involved in the right tonsillar fossa.
He was noted to have bilateral neck nodes. His biopsy was positive for
squamous cell carcinoma.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for mild hypertension. He has had
cataract surgery, gastroesophageal reflux disease and a history of biceps
tendon tear.

ALLERGIES: Penicillin.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide 20/25 mg q.d.,
alprazolam 0.5 mg q.d., omeprazole 20 mg b.i.d., Lortab 7.5/500 mg q 4h p.r.n.

FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for father who has stroke and grandfather with
lung cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married but has been separated from his
wife for many years, they remain close, and they have two adult sons. He is
retired from the Air Force, currently works for Lockheed Martin. He was born
and raised in New York. He does have a smoking history, about a 20 pack-year
history and he reports quitting on July 27. He does drink alcohol socially. No
use of illicit drugs.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient's chief complaint is fatigue. He has
difficulty swallowing and dysphagia. He is responding well to Lortab and
Tylenol for pain control. He denies any chest pain, shortness of breath,
fevers, chills and night sweats. The rest of his review of systems is
negative.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  
VITALS: BP: 115/70. HEART RATE: 62. TEMP: 97.4. Weight: 93.6 kg.  
GEN: He is very pleasant and in no acute distress. He has noticeable mass on
his left neck.  
HEENT: Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Sclerae anicteric. His
oropharynx is notable for scalloped tongue and he has no oral ulcers. Upon
protrusion of his tongue, he has deviation to the right.  
NECK: Noticeable for bilateral palpable adenopathy with a large palpable mass
in the left neck.  
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation on the right. He has some mild vesicular breath
sounds in the left.  
CV: Regular rate; normal S1, S2, no murmurs.  
ABDOMEN: Soft. He has positive bowel sounds. No hepatosplenomegaly. No
axillary inguinal adenopathy.  
EXT: No lower extremity edema.

LABORATORY STUDIES:  
1. A PET/CT scan shows a large hypermetabolic mass involved in the posterior
aspect of the tongue, which is predominantly right-sided but extends across
the midline to involve the right posterior aspect of the tongue as well.  
2. Extensive bulky hypermetabolic cervical lymphadenopathy bilaterally.  
3. No evidence of distant hypermetabolic metastatic disease.  
4. His biopsy of the right base of the tongue, invasive squamous cell
carcinoma. Biopsy of the left base of the tongue, invasive squamous cell
carcinoma moderately differentiated.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN: This is a pleasant but unfortunate 61-year-old gentleman
who was diagnosed with stage IV, a squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx.
He has met with radiation oncology to discuss the plan and he has also been in
close contact with his dentist. He has a known abscess and is in need of some
bridge work. I discussed issues with his dentist and the patient will be
seeing this Friday for cleaning. One of the things that we will need to
coordinate is evaluation of the involvement of his salivary glands. There
needs to be a discussion as to whether or not he would be better off with the
tooth extraction prior to radiation. We will coordinate this between myself,
radiation oncology, and his dentist.

As far as his chemotherapy treatment, the plan at this point is to proceed
with two cycles of induction chemotherapy. The first cycle will include
docetaxel, cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil plus Erbitux. Typical administration
is docetaxel, cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil on day 1 with continuous infusion
of 5-fluorouracil through day 4. Erbitux will be administered on day 1 and day
8 of the first cycle. We will plan to proceed with the second cycle to include
docetaxel, cisplatin and continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil without the
Erbitux. Following induction chemotherapy, we plan to obtain a PET/CT scan.
Again, this will be closely coordinated with radiation onset if they can do
with planning CT at that time of the PET. Radiation will be planned with
concurrent Erbitux. This will be given, the first dose will be one week prior
to starting the radiation and then given weekly throughout radiation. I did
discuss briefly with the patient the possibility of admission for the
induction chemotherapy. The patient was not very excited at this particular
discussion. Otherwise, I do feel with him living in the Longmont area that
this may be our best bet and would also be a way of being able to closely
monitor his kidney function and administer the necessary hydration. He is
scheduled for chemo education on August 16. He received prescription refill
for Lortab for pain management, and I will see him in clinic when he comes in
for chemotherapy education so that we can talk further about treatment
administration. I appreciate the consultation.