

PROBLEM LIST:  
1. HIV stable.  
2. Hepatitis C chronic.  
3. History of depression, stable off meds.  
4. Hypertension, moderately controlled.

CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient comes for a routine followup appointment.

HISTORY OF PRESENTING ILLNESS: This is a 34-year-old African American
female who comes today for routine followup. She has no acute complaints. She
reports that she has a muscle sprain on her upper back from lifting. The
patient is a housekeeper by profession. It does not impede her work in anyway.
She just reports that it gives her some trouble sleeping at night, pain on 1
to 10 scale was about 2 and at worse it is 3 to 4 but relieved with over-the-
counter medication. No other associated complaints. No neurological deficits
or other specific problems. The patient denies any symptoms associated with
opportunistic infection.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  
1. Significant for HIV.  
2. Hepatitis.  
3. Depression.  
4. Hypertension.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  
1. She is on Trizivir 1 tablet p.o. b.i.d.  
2. Ibuprofen over-the-counter p.r.n.

MEDICATION COMPLIANCE: The patient is 100% compliant with her meds. She
reports she does not miss any doses.

ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies.

DRUG INTOLERANCE: There is no known drug intolerance in the past.

NUTRITIONAL STATUS: The patient eats regular diet and eats 3 meals a day.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Noncontributory except as mentioned in the HPI.

LABORATORY DATA: Most recent labs from 11/07.

RADIOLOGICAL DATA: She has had no recent radiological procedures.

IMMUNIZATIONS: Up-to-date.

SEXUAL HISTORY: She has had no recent STDs and she is not currently
sexually active. PPD status was negative in the past. PPD will be placed again
today.

Treatment adherence counseling was performed by both nursing staff and myself.
Again, the patient is a 100% compliant with her meds. Last dental exam was in
11/07, where she had 2 teeth extracted. Last Pap smear was 1 year ago was
negative. The patient has not had mammogram yet, as she is not of the age
where she would start screening mammogram. She has no family history of breast
cancer.

MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE: The patient has a history of
depression. No history of substance abuse.

ADVANCED DIRECTIVE: Unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
GENERAL: This is a thinly built female, not in acute distress. VITAL SIGNS:
Temperature 36.5, blood pressure 132/89, pulse of 82, and weight of 104
pounds. HEAD AND NECK: Reveals bilaterally reactive pupils. Supple neck. No
thrush. No adenopathy. HEART: Heart sounds S1 and S2 regular. No murmur.
LUNGS: Clear bilaterally to auscultation. ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender with
good bowel sounds. NEUROLOGIC: She is alert and oriented x3 with no focal
neurological deficit. EXTREMITIES: Peripheral pulses are felt bilaterally. She
has no pitting pedal edema, clubbing or cyanosis. GU: Examination of external
genitalia is unremarkable. There are no lesions.

LABORATORY DATA: From 11/07 shows hemoglobin and hematocrit of 16 and 46.
Creatinine of 0.6. LFTs within normal limits. Viral load of less than 48 and
CD4 count of 918.

ASSESSMENT:  
1. Human immunodeficiency virus, stable on Trizivir.  
2. Hepatitis C with stable transaminases.  
3. History of depression, stable off meds.  
4. Hypertension, moderately controlled on meds.

PLAN: Continue her current meds. I have discussed with her in the past
about possibility of having to change off of her Trizivir in the future. If
she develops resistance since triple NRTI therapy is not the preferred, but
she is not amenable to that at this time. She has excellent viremic control
and good CD4 count. We will readdress this with her in the future if her
status changes. The patient is to have PPD placed today as well to schedule
for annual Pap smear. She has received her annual influenza vaccination for
this season. She will be re-seen by the dental clinic for routine evaluation
and have labs today including CD4, viral load, RPR, and urinalysis. She is to
be prescribed Ultram for a 7-day course p.r.n. use b.i.d. for the muscle
sprain. She will return to our clinic in 6 months. The patient does not want
to be seen more often since she has a job that she reports to and cannot miss
more days off work. Again this is acceptable since she has excellent viremic
control. The patient has been educated regarding her meds and plan. Her
prognosis is excellent and she will follow up with us in 6 months.