

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Arm and leg jerking.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 10-day-old Caucasian female
here for approximately 1 minute bilateral arm and leg jerks, which started at
day of life 1 and have occurred 6 total times since then. Mom denies any
apnea, perioral cyanosis, or color changes. These movements are without any
back arching. They mainly occur during sleep, so mom is unaware of any eye
rolling. Mom is able to wake the patient up during this periods and stop the
patient's extremity movements.

Otherwise, this patient has been active, breast-feeding well, although she
falls asleep at the breast. She is currently taking in 15 to 20 minutes of
breast milk every 2 to 3 hours. She is having increased diapers up to 8 wet
and 6 to 7 dirty-yellow stools per day.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative fever, negative fussiness, tracks with her
eyes, some sneezing and hiccups. This patient has developed some upper airway
congestion in the past day. She has not had any vomiting or diarrhea. Per mom,
she does not spit up, and mom is also unable to notice any relationship
between these movements and feeds. This patient has not had any rashes. Mom
was notified by the nurses at birth that her temperature may be low of
approximately 97.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Otherwise, the above history of present
illness and other review of systems negative.

BIRTH/PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient was an 8 pound 11 ounce baby,
ex-41-weeker born via vaginal delivery without vacuum assist or forceps. There
were no complications during pregnancy such as diabetes or hypertension.
Prenatal care started at approximately 3 weeks, and mom maintained all visits.
She also denies any smoking, alcohol, or drug use during the pregnancy. Mom
was GBS status positive, but denies any other infections such as urinary tract
infections. She did not have any fever during labor and received inadequate
intrapartum antibiotics prophylaxis. After delivery, this patient did not
receive antibiotics secondary to  "borderline labs." She was jaundiced after
birth and received photo treatments. Her discharge bilirubin level was
approximately 11. Mom and child stayed in the hospital for approximately 3-1/2
days.

Mom denies any history of sexually transmitted disease in her or dad. She
specifically denies any blistering, herpetic genital lesions. She does have a
history though of human papillomavirus warts (vaginal), removed 20 years ago.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Negative.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS: None.

SOCIAL HISTORY: At home live mom, dad, and 18-, 16-, 14-, 12-year-old
brothers, and a 3-year-old sister. All the residents at home are sick
currently with cold, cough, runny nose, except for mom. At home also live 2
dogs and 2 outside cats. Mom denies any recent travel history, especially
during the recent holidays and no smoke exposures.

FAMILY HISTORY: Dad is with a stepdaughter with seizures starting at 14
years old, on medications currently. The patient 's 16-year-old brother has
incessant nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. The maternal grandmother is
notable for hypertension and diabetes. There are no other children in the
family who see a specialist or no child death less than 1 year of age.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
VITAL SIGNS: Temperature was 97.5, heart rate was 150, blood pressure was
88/53, respiratory rate was 37 on room air. Weight was 4 kg, this placed her
at the 75th to 90th percentile; the length was 52 cm, this places her at the
75th to 90th percentile, and head circumference was 36 cm, which places her at
the 75th percentile.  
GENERAL: In no acute distress, alert, nonfussy, active, breast-feeding well.  
HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic head. Negative for any cephalohematomas. The
anterior fontanelle was soft, open, and flat. Bilateral red reflexes were
positive. The extraocular muscles were intact. The tympanic membranes were
clear. Negative rhinorrhea. The oropharynx is clear with intact hard and soft
palates. There was an Epstein pearl approximately 1 to 2 o'clock on the upper
palate.  
NECK: Negative for swelling or clavicular crepitus.  
CARDIOVASCULAR: Heart was regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs. Femoral
pulses were positive. Capillary refill was less than 2 seconds.  
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally without any increased work of
breathing. There was some upper airway congestion.  
ABDOMEN: Bowel sounds positive, nontender and nondistended, negative for
hepatosplenomegaly.  
GU: Tanner stage I female.  
SKIN: There was mild jaundice and positive erythema toxicum to the face and
upper torso.  
NEUROLOGIC: There were positive Moro and suck reflexes with good upper and
lower extremity tone and strength. The patient moves all extremities equally
and well.

LABORATORY DATA: CBC showed a white blood cell count of 7.5 with a
differential of 13% segmental cells, 5% bands, 60% lymphocytes, hemoglobin was
20.2, hematocrit was 57.9, and a platelet count was slightly elevated at
437,000. A CRP was less than 0.3. CMP showed a sodium of 136, potassium of
5.3, chloride of 106, bicarbonate of 23, BUN of 5, creatinine of 0.4, glucose
of 93, calcium was 11.1. T and direct bilirubin were 8.4 and 0. Liver function
tests include an AST of 50, an ALT of 10, and an alkaline phosphatase of 173.

A urinalysis was negative only showing 0 to 5 epithelial cells and trace
crystals.

Current pending studies include CSF studies such as a Gram stain, culture,
glucose, protein, cell count, and HSV PCR. Also, pending include a head CT and
a blood and urine culture.

ASSESSMENT: A 10-day-old neonate with:  
1. Seizure-like activity.  
2. Physiologic jaundice of the newborn.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSES: In this patient includes:  
1. Infantile spasms.  
2. Benign neonatal sleep myoclonus - this patient's movements occur during
sleep and consist of extremity jerking. Also compatible with this diagnosis
includes the fact that mom is able to stop these movements.  
3. Hyperekplexia - this patient though is without any startle movements or
stiffness.  
4. Trauma - possibilities include any type of intracranial hemorrhage,
subdural or epidural. This patient though is without any rapidly declining
neurologic deficits currently.  
5. Neonatal hypoxemia - there is no history of hypoxemic events at birth.  
6. Central nervous system infection or bacteremia - possibilities include
bacterial meningitis. The most likely bacteria include group B streptococcus,
Escherichia coli, and Listeria. Also to consider include herpes simplex virus
encephalitis or urosepsis. This patient though is with a normal urinalysis
currently, normal CBC without fever or lethargy in her history and not toxic
appearing currently.  
7. Metabolic causes causing seizures including hypocalcemia and hypoglycemia
- this patient is with a normal complete metabolic panel.  
8. Congenital brain abnormality - so far this patient is with a normal neuro
and developmental exam.  
9. Drug withdrawal or intoxication - this could always be a possibility, but
the patient's parents are seemingly good parents with a good social history
not raising any flags for abuse.

PLAN:  
1. Currently this patient has pending CSF studies including a culture plus
blood and urine culture. Also, pending right now is an HSV PCR. In the
meantime, we will start antibiotics including ampicillin, gentamicin, and
acyclovir to cover for the most likely bacterial and viral pathogens,
especially herpes virus.  
2. We will obtain a head CT tonight to rule out any trauma or bleeds in
brain.  
3. We will place this patient on continuous cardiorespiratory and pulse
oximetry monitoring and document vitals during any seizure-like activity.  
4. We will obtain an EEG in the morning in addition to a neurology consult.  
5. We will continue to monitor this patient's jaundice, which has decreased
since her discharge from the hospital.  
6. These initial plans were all discussed with mom at the bedside, including
the risks and benefits of a lumbar puncture, which has already been performed.