

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Low back pain and right lower extremity pain. The
encounter reason for today 's consultation is for a second opinion regarding
evaluation and treatment of the aforementioned symptoms.

HPI - LUMBAR SPINE: The patient is a male and 39 years old. The current
problem began on or about 3 months ago. The symptoms were sudden in onset.
According to the patient, the current problem is a result of a fall. The date
of injury was 3 months ago. There is no significant history of previous spine
problems. Medical attention has been obtained through the referral source.
Medical testing for the current problem includes the following: no recent
tests. Treatment for the current problem includes the following: activity
modification, bracing, medications and work modification. The following types
of medications are currently being used for the present spine problem:
narcotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories and muscle relaxants. The
following types of medications have been used in the past: steroids. In
general, the current spine problem is much worse since its onset.

PAST SPINE HISTORY: Unremarkable.

PRESENT LUMBAR SYMPTOMS: Pain location: lower lumbar. The patient
describes the pain as sharp. The pain ranges from none to severe. The pain is
severe frequently. It is present intermittently and most of the time daily.
The pain is made worse by flexion, lifting, twisting, activity, riding in a
car and sitting. The pain is made better by laying in the supine position,
medications, bracing and rest. Sleep alteration because of pain: wakes up
after getting to sleep frequently and difficulty getting to sleep frequently.
Pain distribution: the lower extremity pain is greater than the low back pain.
The patient 's low back pain appears to be discogenic in origin. The pain is
much worse since its onset.

PRESENT RIGHT LEG SYMPTOMS: Pain location: S1 dermatome (see the Pain
Diagram). The patient describes the pain as sharp. The severity of the pain
ranges from none to severe. The pain is severe frequently. It is present
intermittently and most of the time daily. The pain is made worse by the same
things that make the low back pain worse. The pain is made better by the same
things that make the low back pain better. Sleep alteration because of pain:
wakes up after getting to sleep frequently and difficulty getting to sleep
frequently. The patient 's symptoms appear to be radicular in origin. The pain
is much worse since its onset.

PRESENT LEFT LEG SYMPTOMS: None.

NEUROLOGIC SIGNS/SYMPTOMS: The patient denies any neurologic
signs/symptoms. Bowel and bladder function are reported as normal. Sexual
function is within normal limits.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Unremarkable.

PAST PSYCHE HISTORY: Unremarkable.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Unremarkable.

SOCIAL HISTORY: Occupation: truck driver. Work status: on sick leave.
Marital status: married. Children: three. The patient lives at home with
family. Tobacco history: smokes two packs of cigarettes per day. The patient
denies the use of any alcoholic beverages. The patient denies any current or
past history of illegal / recreational drug or prescription drug abuse or
addiction. Family History: There are no known significant medical illnesses in
the immediate and past family history.

CURRENT GENERAL MEDICATIONS: None.

CURRENT SPINE MEDICATIONS: Lortab 7.5, SOMA and Daypro.

ALLERGIES: The patient denies any known drug allergies or intolerances.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative except as noted above.

EXAM GENERAL: Mental status: normal, good historian and normal speech.
Obesity: none. General appearance: well developed, well-nourished, normal
affect and healthy appearing. Personality: pleasant and cooperative. Movement
about the examining room: normal with evident pain and gets in and out of a
chair with difficulty. Gait: antalgic and walks with a limp. Heel walking:
normal. Toe walking: normal. Floor squat: normal with pain. General strength:
normal.

EXAM LUMBAR SPINE: Alignment: normal. Inspection: unremarkable. Tenderness
to palpation: L4-5, L5-S1, on both sides, right sciatic notch and right
sciatic nerve. Muscle spasm: severe and on both sides. Range of motion:
decreased 50 percent and painful. Skin: unremarkable.

EXAM SPINE: Nerve Provocation: Right straight-leg raising was positive at
30 degrees. Left straight-leg raising was negative. Contralateral straight-leg
raising was negative. Right and left femoral nerve stress testing were
negative.

EXAM LOWER EXTREMITIES: Examination of the lower extremities was basically
unremarkable.

EXAM VASCULAR: Unremarkable with symmetric and normal pulses, color and
warmth.

EXAM NEUROLOGICAL: Motor, sensation and deep tendon reflexes were normal.
Babinski response is negative bilaterally. Clonus is negative bilaterally.
Long tract findings: negative bilaterally.

EXAM PSYCHE: Waddell 's signs negative.

OFFICE X-RAYS: The following routine roentgenograms were taken today and
reviewed with the patient: lumbar anteroposterior and lateral. Findings:
degenerative disc disease L4-5 and L5-S1. Alignment: normal. Bone density:
normal. Sacro-iliac joints: normal. Sacrum and coccyx: normal. Hip joints:
unremarkable.

PROVISIONAL DIAGNOSIS: Lumbar Spine: Herniated Nucleus Pulposus (ICD-9-CM:
722.10).

RECOMMENDATIONS - TESTS: Lumbar MRI.

RECOMMENDATIONS - TREATMENT: Activity modification. Medications.
Modalities. Nicotine cessation. Physical therapy. See the office "Return to
Work Orders. Final recommendations pending.

RECOMMENDATIONS - MEDICATIONS: Current medications.

RECOMMENDATIONS - SURGERY: Spine surgery is not a consideration at this
time.

RECOMMENDATIONS - WORK: No return to work at this time (temporary).

MEDICATIONS PRESCRIBED: None.

COUNSELING: The diagnosis, prognosis, treatment options, risks, and
alternatives were discussed in detail using language understandable to this
particular patient. The interpretation of the tests delineated above has been
discussed with the patient in appropriate detail to his/her satisfaction.
Conservative instructions and restrictions have been reviewed with the patient
and have been understood. Questions have been elicited and all questions have
been answered to the patient 's satisfaction in understandable terms.

FOLLOW-UP PLAN: The patient was scheduled for a follow-up office
appointment after the above testing is completed. He was instructed to contact
me in the interval for any neurologic problems or worsening.