

REASON FOR REFERRAL: The patient is a 58-year-old African-American right-
handed female with 16 years of education who was referred for a
neuropsychological evaluation by Dr. X. She is presenting for a second opinion
following a recent neuropsychological evaluation that was ordered by her
former place of employment that suggested that she was in the  "early stages
of a likely dementia" and was thereafter terminated from her position as a
psychiatric nurse. A comprehensive evaluation was requested to assess current
cognitive functioning and assist with diagnostic decisions and treatment
planning. Note that this evaluation was undertaken as a clinical exam and
intended for the purposes of aiding with treatment planning. The patient was
fully informed about the nature of this evaluation and intended use of the
results.

RELEVANT BACKGROUND INFORMATION: Historical information was obtained from
a review of available medical records and clinical interview with the patient.
A summary of pertinent information is presented below. Please refer to the
patient's medical chart for a more complete history.

HISTORY OF PRESENTING PROBLEM: The patient reported that she had worked as
a nurse supervisor for Hospital Center for four years. She was dismissed from
this position in September 2009, although she said that she is still under
active status technically, but is not able to work. She continues to receive
some compensation through FMLA hours. She said that she was told that she had
three options, to resign, to apply for disability retirement, and she had 90
days to complete the process of disability retirement after which her
employers would file for charges in order for her to be dismissed from State
Services. She said that these 90 days are up around the end of November. She
said the reason for her dismissal was performance complaints. She said that
they began  "as soon as she arrived and that these were initially related to
problems with her taking too much sick time off secondary to diabetes and
fibromyalgia management and at one point she needed to obtain a doctor's note
for any days off. She said that her paperwork was often late and that she
received discipline for not disciplining her staff frequently enough for
tardiness or missed workdays. She described it as a very chaotic and hectic
work environment in which she was often putting in extra time. She said that
since September 2008 she only took two sick days and was never late to work,
but that she continued to receive a lot of negative feedback.

In July of this year, she reportedly received a letter from personnel
indicating that she was being referred to a state medical doctor because she
was unable to perform her job duties and due to excessive sick time. Following
a brief evaluation with this doctor whose records we do not have, she was sent
to a neuropsychologist, Dr. Y, Ph.D. He completed a Comprehensive Independent
Medical Evaluation on 08/14/2009. She said that on 08/27/2009, she returned to
see the original doctor who told her that based on that evaluation she was not
able to work anymore. Please note that we do not have copies of any of her
work-related correspondence. The patient never received a copy of the
neuropsychological evaluation because she was told that it was "too
derogatory." A copy of that evaluation was provided directly to this examiner
for the purpose of this evaluation. To summarize, the results indicated
"diagnostically, The patient presents cognitive deficits involving visual
working memory, executive functioning, and motor functioning along with low
average intellectual functioning that is significantly below her memory
functioning and below expectation based on her occupational and academic
history. This suggests that her intellectual functioning has declined." It
concluded that "results overall suggest early stages of a likely dementia or
possibly the effects of diabetes, although her deficits are greater than
expected for diabetes-related executive functioning problems and peripheral
neuropathy… The patient' deficits within the current test battery suggest that
she would not be able to safely and effectively perform the duties of a nurse
supervisor without help handling documentary demands and some supervision of
her visual processing. The prognosis for improvement is not good, although she
might try stimulant medication if compatible with her other. Following her
dismissal, The patient presented to her primary physician, Henry Fein, M.D.,
who referred her to Dr. X for a second opinion regarding her cognitive
deficits. His neurological examination on 09/23/2009 was unremarkable. The
patient scored 20/30 on the Mini-Mental Status Exam missing one out of three
words on recall, but was able to do so with prompting. A repeat neurocognitive
testing was suggested in order to assess for subtle deficits in memory and
concentration that were not appreciated on this gross cognitive measure.

IMAGING STUDIES: MRI of the brain on 09/14/2009 was unremarkable with no
evidence of acute intracranial abnormality or abnormal enhancing lesions. Note
that the MRI was done with and without gadolinium contrast.

CURRENT FUNCTIONING: The patient reported that she had experienced some
difficulty completing paperwork on time due primarily to the chaoticness of
the work environment and the excessive amount of responsibility that was
placed upon her. When asked about changes in cognitive functioning, she denied
noticing any decline in problem solving, language, or nonverbal skills. She
also denied any problems with attention and concentration or forgetfulness or
memory problems. She continues to independently perform all activities of
daily living. She is in charge of the household finances, has had no problems
paying bills on time, has had no difficulties with driving or accidents,
denied any missed appointments and said that no one has provided feedback to
her that they have noticed any changes in her cognitive functioning. She
reported that if her children had noticed anything they definitely would have
brought it to her attention. She said that she does not currently have a
lawyer and does not intend to return to her previous physician. She said she
has not yet proceeded with the application for disability retirement because
she was told that her doctors would have to fill out that paperwork, but they
have not claimed that she is disabled and so she is waiting for the doctors at
her former workplace to initiate the application. Other current symptoms
include excessive fatigue. She reported that she was diagnosed with chronic
fatigue syndrome in 1991, but generally symptoms are under better control now,
but she still has difficulty secondary to fibromyalgia. She also reported
having fallen approximately five times within the past year. She said that
this typically occurs when she is climbing up steps and is usually related to
her right foot "like dragging." Dr. X's physical examination revealed no
appreciable focal peripheral deficits on motor or sensory testing and notes
that perhaps these falls are associated with some stiffness and pain of her
right hip and knee, which are chronic symptoms from her fibromyalgia and
osteoarthritis. She said that she occasionally bumps into objects, but denied
noticing it happening one on any particular part of her body. Muscle pain
secondary to fibromyalgia reportedly occurs in her neck and shoulders down
both arms and in her left hip.

OTHER MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient reported that her birth and development
were normal. She denied any significant medical conditions during childhood.
As mentioned, she now has a history of fibromyalgia. She also experiences some
restriction in the range of motion with her right arm. MRI of the C-spine
04/02/2009 showed a hemangioma versus degenerative changes at C7 vertebral
body and bulging annulus with small central disc protrusion at C6-C7. MRI of
the right shoulder on 06/04/2009 showed small partial tear of the distal
infraspinatus tendon and prominent tendinopathy of the distal supraspinatus
tendon. As mentioned, she was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome in 1991.
She thought that this may actually represent early symptoms of fibromyalgia
and said that symptoms are currently under control. She also has diabetes,
high blood pressure, osteoarthritis, tension headaches, GERD, carpal tunnel
disease, cholecystectomy in 1976, and ectopic pregnancy in 1974. Her previous
neuropsychological evaluation referred to an outpatient left neck cystectomy
in 2007. She has some difficulty falling asleep, but currently typically
obtains approximately seven to eight hours of sleep per night. She did report
some sleep disruption secondary to unusual dreams and thought that she talked
to herself and could sometimes hear herself talking in her sleep.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: NovoLog, insulin pump, metformin, metoprolol,
amlodipine, Topamax, Lortab, tramadol, amitriptyline, calcium plus vitamin D,
fluoxetine, pantoprazole, Naprosyn, fluticasone propionate, and vitamin C.

SUBSTANCE USE: The patient reported that she rarely drinks alcohol and she
denied smoking or using illicit drugs. She drinks two to four cups of coffee
per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient was born and raised in North Carolina. She was
the sixth of nine siblings. Her father was a chef. He completed third grade
and died at 60 due to complications of diabetes. Her mother is 93 years old.
Her last job was as a janitor. She completed fourth grade. She reported that
she has no cognitive problems at this time. Family medical history is
significant for diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, thyroid problems,
sarcoidosis, and possible multiple sclerosis and depression. The patient
completed a Bachelor of Science in Nursing through State University in 1979.
She denied any history of problems in school such as learning disabilities,
attentional problems, difficulty learning to read, failed grades, special help
in school or behavioral problems. She was married for two years. Her ex-
husband died in 1980 from acute pancreatitis secondary to alcohol abuse. She
has two children ages 43 and 30. Her son whose age is 30 lives nearby and is
in consistent contact with her and she is also in frequent contact and has a
close relationship with her daughter who lives in New York. In school, the
patient reported obtaining primarily A's and B's. She said that her strongest
subject was math while her worst was spelling, although she reported that her
grades were still quite good in spelling. The patient worked for Hospital
Center for four years. Prior to that, she worked for an outpatient mental
health center for 2-1/2 years. She was reportedly either terminated or laid
off and was unsure of the reason for that. Prior to that, she worked for
Walter P. Carter Center reportedly for 21 years. She has also worked as an OB
nurse in the past. She reported that other than the two instances reported
above, she had never been terminated or fired from a job. In her spare time,
the patient enjoys reading, participating in women's groups doing puzzles,
playing computer games.

PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: The patient reported that she sought psychotherapy on
and off between 1991 and 1997 secondary to her chronic fatigue. She was also
taking Prozac during that time. She then began taking Prozac again when she
started working at secondary to stress with the work situation. She reported a
chronic history of mild sadness or depression, which was relatively stable.
When asked about her current psychological experience, she said that she was
somewhat sad, but not dwelling on things. She denied any history of suicidal
ideation or homicidal ideation.

TASKS ADMINISTERED:  
Clinical Interview  
Adult History Questionnaire  
Wechsler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR)  
Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE)  
Cognistat Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination  
Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS;
Form XX)  
Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, 2nd Edition (DRS-2)  
Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB)  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Third Edition (WAIS-III)  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV)  
Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI)  
Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA)  
Auditory Consonant Trigrams (ACT)  
Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT)  
Ruff 2  & 7 Selective Attention Test  
Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT)  
Multilingual Aphasia Examination, Second Edition (MAE-II)  
Token Test  
Sentence Repetition  
Visual Naming  
Controlled Oral Word Association  
Spelling Test  
Aural Comprehension  
Reading Comprehension  
Boston Naming Test, Second Edition (BNT-2)  
Animal Naming Test  
Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT: F-A-S)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (VMI)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Motor Coordination  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Perception  
Hooper Visual Organization Test (VOT)  
Judgment of Line Orientation (JOLO)  
Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT)  
Wechsler Memory Scale, Third Edition (WMS-III)  
Wechsler Memory Scale, Fourth Edition (WMS-IV)  
California Verbal Learning Test, Second Edition (CVLT-II)  
Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT)  
Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS)  
Trail Making Test  
Verbal Fluency (Letter & Category)  
Design Fluency  
Color-Word Interference Test  
Tower  
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST)  
Stroop Color-Word Test  
Color Trails  
Trail Making Test A & B  
Wide Range Achievement Test, Fourth Edition (WRAT-IV)  
Woodcock Johnson Tests of Achievement, Third Edition (WJ-III)  
Nelson-Denny Reading Test  
Grooved Pegboard  
Purdue Pegboard  
Finger Tapping Test  
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)  
Mood Assessment Scale (MAS)  
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)  
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Second Edition (MMPI-2)  
Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory, Third Edition (MCMI-III)  
Millon Behavioral Medicine Diagnostic (MBMD)  
Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF)  
Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, Second Edition (ABAS-II)

BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS: The patient arrived unaccompanied and on time for
her appointment. She ambulated independently and no gross psychomotor
abnormalities were noted. Vision and hearing appeared to be adequate for
testing. She was neatly dressed and groomed. Eye contact was good. She was
oriented to person, place, time, and situation. Speech was mildly slow and a
few mild articulatory errors were noted near the end of the day, and a few
paraphasic errors were noted on a confrontation naming task. There were
otherwise no apparent problems with expression and speech was normal with
respect to rhythm and prosody. She was somewhat quiet, but quite cooperative
throughout the day. Affect appeared to be mildly constricted, but she smiled
and joked appropriately at times. Mood appeared to be euthymic. Receptive
language abilities appeared to be within broad normal limits as she was able
to appropriately respond to the examiner 's questions and instructions.
Thought processes were linear and goal-directed and no thought disturbances
were noted. She appeared quite tired near the end of the day and it should be
noted that sustained attention task was the last test that was given at the
end of the day. When asked, the patient said that she recognized some of the
tests that were given, but not most of them. She denied having look up any
information on any of the tests that are typically involved in a
neuropsychological battery or having any additional information about them
since her last testing. Overall, The patient appeared to put full effort into
this evaluation. She was highly motivated and thus these results should be
seen as an accurate reflection of her current cognitive functioning.

Note that there was some overlap in tests that were administered during this
evaluation and those given at her evaluation in August of 2009. These include
the ways for CPT II, verbal fluency, and Boston Naming Test, but this
exception of the ways for most of these tests are not expected to have a
significant practice effect associated with them; however, they will be
interpreted with her recent evaluation in mind.

EVALUATION FINDINGS:

Classification Level |-| Percentile Rank |-| Standard Score |-| Scaled Score
|-| T-Score  
Very Superior |---| > 98 |---| >130 |---| > 16 |---| > 70  
Superior |---| 91-97 |---| 120-129 |---| 14-15 |---| 64-69  
High Average |---| 75-90 |---| 110-119 |---| 12-13 |---| 57-63  
Average |---| 25-74 |---| 90-109 |---| 8-11 |---| 44-56  
Low Average |---| 9-24 |---| 80-89 |---| 6-7 |---| 37-43  
Borderline |---| 2-8 |---| 68-79 |---| 4-5 |---| 29-36  
Impaired |---| < 1 |---| < 67 |---| 1-3 |---| < 28

GENERAL COGNITIVE ABILITY: The patient performed in the high average range
on a measure of gross cognitive functioning. Her performances were within
expected limits across subtests assessing attention, initiation, visuospatial
construction, conceptualization, and memory.

INTELLECTUAL FUNCTIONING: Based on a word reading test, premorbid
intellectual functioning was estimated to fall in the average range. Current
intellectual functioning fell in the average range (Full Scale IQ equals 98,
45th percentile). Her index scores also indicated average performance across
tasks assessing the verbal knowledge and comprehension, visuospatial
perception and reasoning, working memory (i.e. complex attention) and
information processing. Significant relative strengths were seen on tasks
assessing stored verbal knowledge and nonverbal reasoning. Significant
relative weaknesses were seen on task assessing visuospatial perception and
construction that included a time demand (low average). Compared to her
previous test results, the pattern of findings is quite similar with stronger
performance on verbal relative to nonverbal tasks or those with significant
working memory or speed demands. However, she performed somewhat better on
most of these tasks in the current evaluation. To some degree this likely
reflects measurement error and variability in addition to some practice
effects, although some tests are less susceptible to such changes relative to
others.

ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT: The patient performed within the average range
across tasks assessing word reading, sentence comprehension, and spelling
skills. Her previous evaluation referred to a number of misspellings that she
had made on her list of medications and certain medical conditions and she
made consistent errors again during this evaluation suggesting that she may
simply have a weakness in this area.

ATTENTION: Auditory working memory was within the average range. Visual
working memory was low average. On a selective visual attention test, she
demonstrated good accuracy in finding target stimuli while scanning
information, although her overall speed was in the low average range. On a
continuous performance test assessing sustained attention, she also
demonstrated good accuracy, although it was noted that her response time
tended to be slower when stimuli were presented with a longer interstimulus
interval suggesting some difficulty adapting to changes in the temporal
stimulus presentation. Note that this latter performance is entirely
consistent with her previous results and taken together these results suggest
that attentional abilities were generally within expectations with some mildly
weaker performance for complex visual relative to verbal information. There
were inconsistencies noted in attentional abilities for both verbal and visual
working memory.

INFORMATION PROCESSING SPEED: As noted, the patient had some difficulty
adapting to changes in stimulus presentation speed on sustained attention task
and there was some suggestion in her performances that she reduced her speed
in order to increase accuracy; however, basic visual scanning and sequencing
and psychomotor processing were in the average to high average range.

LANGUAGE: Mild articulatory and paraphasic errors were noted on a
confrontation naming test. Verbal retrieval for phonemic or category cues were
in the high average and average range respectively. Stored verbal knowledge
was in the average range with as mentioned strengths noted in vocabulary.
Those language abilities were generally within expected limits.

VISUOSPATIAL PERCEPTION AND CONSTRUCTION: The patient demonstrated
variability in her performances on tasks assessing visuospatial perception and
construction. Basic visual perception assessed through her ability to
accurately interpret angular line orientations was in the high average. Mental
organization and synthesis of parts of visual figures was in the average range
on an untimed task that involved namable objects and in the low average range
and relative weakness when it involved timed synthesis of shapes.

Visuospatial construction using either line drawings or blocks to match to a
sample design was in the borderline to low average range. Thus taken together,
the patient demonstrated some relative weaknesses in aspects of visuospatial
processing, particularly when tasks involved the time component or shapes and
figures rather than recognizable objects.

LEARNING & MEMORY SKILLS:

VERBAL LEARNING AND MEMORY: Initial acquisition of a list of 15 unrelated
items within the high average range (she successfully recalled eight items).
She benefited significantly from repetition and demonstrated immediate and
significant improvement in her recall, although across five learning trials,
her learning curve was mildly inconsistent suggesting attentional weaknesses;
however, following the fifth trial, her overall learning fell in the superior
range (all 15 items were successfully recalled). Spontaneous recall following
a 20-minute delay was in the average range as she was able to remember 11 of
the 15 items. She correctly recognized all those items during recognition
(high average). Taking together these memory results are well within expected
limits. She demonstrated some mild forgetting, but still fell within the
average range and was able to recognize items effectively suggesting mild
weaknesses and inconsistencies with retrieval and attentional weaknesses may
have contributed to variability in her learning curve initially.

VISUAL LEARNING AND MEMORY: The patient' immediate recall of a complex
figure was in the average range. She retained all of that information
following a delay and her recall was in the high average range. Recognition of
the individual components of the figure was impaired. Taken together these
results highlight some difficulties with complex visuospatial perception and
construction, although memory per se was intact based on her very strong
recall performances. Note also that she demonstrated this strong memory
despite some initial errors in her copy of the complex figure itself again
highlighting difficulties with perception and construction, but good overall
memory functioning.

EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONING: As mentioned, working memory was stronger for
verbal than visual information, but both were within broad normal limits.
Verbal fluency was within expected limits as well and she demonstrated
particular strength in switching between semantic categories (very superior).
Design fluency was average. Cognitive set shifting, inhibition of prepotent
responses and planning and problem solving all fell within the average to high
average range and within expected limits. Abstract reasoning for visual and
verbal information was also good. Thus taken together, the patient did not
demonstrate any difficulties with tasks assessing executive functioning.

MOTOR FUNCTIONING: Fine motor coordination skills were within the average
range with both her right dominant hand and left hand. Strength was impaired
on both sides while basic motor speed was in the borderline range for both
hands. These results are very similar to those that were found in her previous
evaluation. They are consistent with decreased strength, but no loss of
dexterity and they do not suggest any lateralized deficits.

EMOTIONAL FUNCTIONING: On an affective screening measure, the patient
endorsed only three items suggesting reduced energy and reduced clarity of
thinking. Overall, these results suggest that she is not experiencing
clinically significant depressive symptoms at this time.

SUMMARY & IMPRESSIONS: This is a 58-year-old African-American female with
16 years of education who is referred for a neuropsychological evaluation by
Dr. X in order to assess for possible cognitive impairment. She reported that
she had recently been terminated from her position as a supervisory nurse in a
psychiatric hospital following a neuropsychological evaluation that concluded
that she may be in the "early stages of a likely dementia".

This evaluation was requested as a second opinion in order to clarify the
nature of her cognitive impairment and make recommendations for ongoing
treatment planning.

Overall, intellectual functioning fell in the average range on this
evaluation. Note that the same battery of tests was used in order to assess
intellectual functioning and given the recency of her previous evaluation to
some degree practice effects may have impacted her performance. However, we
would not expect as significant of an impact upon tasks assessing processing
speed and working memory. The same pattern of performance was noted across
subtests in the intellectual battery with stronger performance on verbal
knowledge based tasks relative to those assessing processing speed, working
memory, and visuospatial skills. However, during this evaluation, she
demonstrated significant improvement across tasks so that in general her
profile is elevated, but the same profile pattern was seen. Note that along
with practice effects, performance can also be impacted by changes in
attention, as well as measurement error. The possibility of attentional
fluctuations having contributed to some of her performance is a definite
possibility based on her performance on some attention tasks, which suggested
that she at times performed better and was able to sequence in mind more
information than she was able to passively repeat and she demonstrated
inconsistencies in her learning curve on the memory task. Our assessment of
her intelligence as falling within the average range is consistent with our
estimate of premorbid intellectual functioning and educational and
occupational history. Note that the ways for technical manual indicates that
test retest gains are less pronounced for verbal comprehension and working
memory subtests than perceptual reasoning and processing speed subtests and
The patient' improvements were much higher than the mean increases in the
normative sample that averaged a shorter period between testing and retesting.
This suggests that as noted above other factors were applied, perhaps
including attentional fluctuations. Relative to intellectual functioning, the
patient performed within expected limits across tasks assessing language
functioning, verbal and visual memory, and executive skills and sustained
attention. Variability in performances was seen for information processing
speed, particularly when responding to changes in the tempo of stimulus
presentation or making more complex visual discriminations. Immediate
attention was also somewhat variable as she should be able to mentally
manipulate greater amounts of visual and verbal material and she could just
passively replicate. The better performance on raw scores on these more
complex tasks is unusual and suggests fluctuations in attention for reasons
other than brain base deficits. She also demonstrated weaker skills in complex
visuospatial processing, particularly for shapes and figures rather than
recognizable objects. Of note, she performed poorly when these tasks involved
the time component. Meteorically, she demonstrated bilateral impairments in
strength and motor speed, but dexterity and fine motor manipulation skills
were within expected limits. The lack of lateralizing information and motor
skills suggests that more peripheral factors and pain may have contributed to
these results. Taken together, these results do not necessarily suggest that
there has been any significant decline from premorbid levels. It is possible
that the patient has always had weaknesses in visuospatial processing and note
that these weaknesses were not in basic visual skills and processing skills,
but rather in putting together shapes and figures. The inconsistencies in her
performances on processing speed and attention tasks suggest that while she
may be somewhat slowed in completing tasks, there may be contributors other
than brain base changes that impacted her results. In particular, the patient'
current medications, as well as pain, fatigue, and medical conditions such as
diabetes and associated possible neuropathy are likely important factors.

Results do not suggest the presence of a progressive dementing disorder. Given
the multiple factors that may have contributed to some of our findings, we do
not believe that any cognitive disorder should be diagnosed at this time. If
there are significant concerns about her cognitive functioning, it may be
useful to make adjustments in her medication regimen. This is a not a work
based evaluation and therefore questions regarding her ability to perform job
duties will not be addressed. One concern that we would like to bring up is
that if visuospatial problems are of newer onset, they may be contributing to
her recent falls and thus should be monitored for changes and progression and
she should return for reevaluation in one year's time in order to determine
any changes in her cognitive functioning. Additional recommendations are
provided below.

Note that there was a little overlap in tests given between the two testing
sessions aside from the ways for CPT to word fluency. Also note that she
completed the brief self-report instrument and all of her results fell within
normal limits.

RECOMMENDATIONS:  
1. Based on fluctuations in processing speed and attention, it is possible
that the patient ' current medications may be impacting her cognitive
functioning to some degree. Decisions regarding any changes are deferred to
her physicians, but it may be useful to streamline her current medications
while also continuing to effectively address symptoms.  
2. The patient should return for reevaluation in one year's time to monitor
her cognitive functioning and evaluate for any improvements in performance
following any medication changes. Note also that stress related to her work
situation and the nature of her previous neuropsychological evaluation may
have also contributed to some of her difficulties on that testing.  
3. The nature of her frequent falls is uncertain, but it is possible that
weaknesses in visuospatial processing may be contributing and this should be
further evaluated by her physicians.