

REASON FOR REFERRAL: The patient is a 76-year-old Caucasian gentleman who
works full-time as a tax attorney. He was referred for a neuropsychological
evaluation by Dr. X after a recent hospitalization for possible transient
ischemic aphasia. Two years ago, a similar prolonged confusional spell was
reported as well. A comprehensive evaluation was requested to assess current
cognitive functioning and assist with diagnostic decisions and treatment
planning.

RELEVANT BACKGROUND INFORMATION: Historical information was obtained from
a review of available medical records and clinical interview with the patient.
A summary of pertinent information is presented below. Please refer to the
patient 's medical chart for a more complete history.

HISTORY OF PRESENTING PROBLEM: The patient was brought to the Hospital
Emergency Department on 09/30/09 after experiencing an episode of confusion
for which he has no recall the previous day. He has no recollection of the
event. The following information is obtained from his medical record. On
09/29/09, he reportedly went to a five-hour meeting and stated several times
"I do not feel well" and looked "glazed." He does not remember anything from
midmorning until the middle of the night and when his wife came home, she
found him in bed at 6 p.m., which is reportedly unusual. She thought he was
warm and had chills. He later returned to his baseline. He was seen by Dr. X
in the hospital on 09/30/09 and reported to him at that time that he felt that
he had returned entirely to baseline. His neurological exam at that time was
unremarkable aside from missing one of three items on recall for the Mini-
Mental Status Examination. Due to mild memory complaints from himself and his
wife, he was referred for more extensive neuropsychological testing. Note that
reportedly when his wife found him in bed, he was shaking and feeling
nauseated, somewhat clammy and kept saying that he could not remember anything
and he was repeating himself, asking the same questions in an agitated way, so
she brought him to the emergency room. The patient had an episode two years
ago of transient loss of memory during which he was staring blankly while
sitting at his desk at work and the episode lasted approximately two hours. He
was hospitalized at Hospital at that time as well and evaluation included
negative EEG, MRI showing mild atrophy, and a neurological consultation, which
did not result in a specific diagnosis, but during this episode he was also
reportedly nauseous. He was also reportedly amnestic for this episode.

In 2004, he had a sense of a funny feeling in his neck and electrodes in his
head and had an MRI at that time which showed some small vessel changes.

During this interview, the patient reported that other than a coworker
noticing a few careless errors in his completion of some documents and his
wife reporting some mild memory changes that he had not noticed any
significant decline. He thought that his memory abilities were similar to
those of his peers of his same age. When I asked about this episode, he said
he had no recall of it at all and that he "felt fine the whole time." He
appeared to be somewhat questioning of the validity of reports that he was
amnestic and confused at that time. So, The patient reported some age related
"memory lapses" such as going into a room and forgetting why, sometimes
putting something down and forgetting where he had put it. However, he
reported that these were entirely within normal expectations and he denied any
type of impairment in his ability to continue to work full-time as a tax
attorney other than his wife and one coworker, he had not received any
feedback from his children or friends of any problems. He denied any missed
appointments, any difficulty scheduling and maintaining appointments. He does
not have to recheck information for errors. He is able to complete tasks in
the same amount of time as he always has. He reported that he has not made
additional errors in tasks that he completed. He said he does write everything
down, but has always done things that way. He reported that he works in a
position that requires a high level of attentiveness and knowledge and that
will become obvious very quickly if he was having difficulties or making
mistakes. He did report some age related changes in attention as well,
although very mild and he thought these were normal and not more than he would
expect for his age. He remains completely independent in his ADLs. He denied
any difficulty with driving or maintaining any activities that he had always
participated in. He is also able to handle their finances. He did report
significant stress recently particularly in relation to his work environment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Includes coronary artery disease, status post CABG
in 1991, radical prostate cancer, status post radical prostatectomy,
nephrectomy for the same cancer, hypertension, lumbar surgery done twice
previously, lumbar stenosis many years ago in the 1960s and 1970s, now
followed by Dr. Y with another lumbar surgery scheduled to be done shortly
after this evaluation, and hyperlipidemia. Note that due to back pain, he had
been taking Percocet daily prior to his hospitalization.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Celebrex 200 mg, levothyroxine 0.025 mg, Vytorin
10/40 mg, lisinopril 10 mg, Coreg 10 mg, glucosamine with chondroitin,
prostate 2.2, aspirin 81 mg, and laxative stimulant or stool softener. Note
that medical records say that he was supposed to be taking Lipitor 40 mg, but
it is not clear if he was doing so and also there was no specific reason found
for why he was taking the levothyroxine.

OTHER MEDICAL HISTORY: Surgical history is significant for hernia repair
in 2007 as well. The patient reported drinking an occasional glass of wine
approximately two days of the week. He quit smoking cigarettes 25 to 30 years
ago and he was diagnosed with cancer. He denied any illicit drug use. Please
add that his prostatectomy was done in 1993 and nephrectomy in 1983 for
carcinoma. He also had right carpal tunnel surgery in 2005 and has
cholelithiasis. Upon discharge from the hospital, the patient 's sleep
deprived EEG was recommended.

MRI completed on 09/30/09 showed "mild cerebral and cerebellar atrophy with no
significant interval change from a prior study dated June 15, 2007. No
evidence of acute intracranial processes identified. CT scan was also
unremarkable showing only mild cerebral and cerebellar atrophy. EEG was
negative. Deferential diagnosis was transient global amnesia versus possible
seizure disorder. Note that he also reportedly has some hearing changes, but
has not followed up with an evaluation for hearing aid.

FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY: Reportedly significant for TIAs in his mother,
although the patient did not report this during our evaluation and so that she
had no memory problems or dementia when she passed away of old age at the age
of 85. In addition, his father had a history of heart disease and passed away
at the age of 75. He has one sister with diabetes and thought his mom might
have had diabetes as well.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient obtained a law degree from the University of
Baltimore. He did not complete his undergraduate degree from the University of
Maryland because he was able to transfer his credits in order to attend law
school at that time. He reported that he did not obtain very good grades until
he reached law school, at which point he graduated in the top 10 of his class
and had no problem passing the Bar. He thought that effort and motivation were
important to his success in his school and he had not felt very motivated
previously. He reported that he repeated math classes  "every year of school"
and attended summer school every year due to that. He has worked as a tax
attorney for the past 48 years and reported having a thriving practice with
clients all across the country. He served also in the U.S. Coast Guard between
1951 and 1953. He has been married for the past 36 years to his wife, Linda,
who is a homemaker. They have four children and he reported having good
relationship with them. He described being very active. He goes for dancing
four to five times a week, swims daily, plays golf regularly and spends
significant amounts of time socializing with friends.

PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: The patient denied any history of psychological or
psychiatric treatment. He reported that some stressors occasionally contribute
to mildly low mood at this time, but that these are transient.

TASKS ADMINISTERED:  
Clinical Interview  
Adult History Questionnaire  
Wechsler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR)  
Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE)  
Cognistat Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination  
Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS;
Form XX)  
Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, 2nd Edition (DRS-2)  
Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB)  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Third Edition (WAIS-III)  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV)  
Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI)  
Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA)  
Auditory Consonant Trigrams (ACT)  
Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT)  
Ruff 2 & 7 Selective Attention Test  
Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT)  
Multilingual Aphasia Examination, Second Edition (MAE-II)  
Token Test  
Sentence Repetition  
Visual Naming  
Controlled Oral Word Association  
Spelling Test  
Aural Comprehension  
Reading Comprehension  
Boston Naming Test, Second Edition (BNT-2)  
Animal Naming Test  
Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT: F-A-S)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (VMI)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Motor Coordination  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Perception  
Hooper Visual Organization Test (VOT)  
Judgment of Line Orientation (JOLO)  
Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT)  
Wechsler Memory Scale, Third Edition (WMS-III)  
Wechsler Memory Scale, Fourth Edition (WMS-IV)  
California Verbal Learning Test, Second Edition (CVLT-II)  
Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT)  
Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS)  
Trail Making Test  
Verbal Fluency (Letter & Category)  
Design Fluency  
Color-Word Interference Test  
Tower  
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST)  
Stroop Color-Word Test  
Color Trails  
Trail Making Test A & B  
Wide Range Achievement Test, Fourth Edition (WRAT-IV)  
Woodcock Johnson Tests of Achievement, Third Edition (WJ-III)  
Nelson-Denny Reading Test  
Grooved Pegboard  
Purdue Pegboard  
Finger Tapping Test  
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)  
Mood Assessment Scale (MAS)  
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)  
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Second Edition (MMPI-2)  
Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory, Third Edition (MCMI-III)  
Millon Behavioral Medicine Diagnostic (MBMD)  
Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF)  
Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, Second Edition (ABAS-II)

BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS: His wife arrived unaccompanied and on time for
his appointment. He was well-dressed and groomed and appeared younger than his
stated age. He ambulated independently and no gross psychomotor abnormalities
were apparent. Eye contact was good. Speech was normal with respects to rate,
rhythm, and paucity. Receptive language abilities appeared to be good as he
was able to appropriately respond to the examiner's questions and
instructions. Thought processes were linear and goal-directed and no thought
disturbances were noted. Mood appeared to be euthymic. Affect was appropriate
and full range.

Vision and hearing appeared to be appropriate for the evaluation, although as
noted, he apparently has some mild decline in his hearing that has not been
addressed or evaluated. Overall, he was very friendly and rapport was very
easily developed.

He appeared to put full effort into all tasks and thus these results are
thought to be an accurate reflection of his current cognitive functioning.
Premorbid intellectual functioning; based on a word reading test, premorbid
intellectual functioning was estimated to fall in the superior range. He was
notably impulse throughout the evaluation, as he would often try to begin a
task before the examiner had completed providing instructions.

COGNITIVE FUNCTIONING: The patient was performed within the high average
range on a measure of gross cognitive functioning assessing his performance
across several domains including attention, visuospatial construction, memory
conceptualization and initiation or perseveration. He performed within normal
limits on all these domains.

ATTENTION: Passive and active auditory attention fell in the average range
as he was able to accurately repeat six digits in forward sequence and five
digits in backward sequence. Visual working memory was in the high average
range. On a test of sustained attention for visual stimuli, he demonstrated
high rate of accuracy despite the fact that there was mild decreases in
consistency of his responses as the task progressed and at different
interstimulus intervals. Overall, however, these results appear to be well
within normal limits. Thus taken together the patient 's auditory and
nonverbal attentional abilities, all fell within normal limits and did not
suggest significant decline from premorbid levels.

LANGUAGE: Confrontation naming was strong and in the high average range.
He demonstrated good comprehension for verbal instructions. He made a few very
mild errors on a sentence repetition task, which may have been due to mild
hearing problems. The errors did not appear to be of clinical significance.
Rapid verbal retrieval fell in the average range for both phonemic and
semantic cues well within broad normal limits. This result may have
represented a mild weakness relative to his estimated premorbid functioning.
Thus taken together, language abilities generally fell within the expected
range, although mild weaknesses were seen in verbal fluency.

VISUOSPATIAL PERCEPTION AND CONSTRUCTION: Visuospatial perception appeared
to be within broad normal limits, although his construction and copy of visual
figures was quite sloppy and imprecise.

LEARNING & MEMORY SKILLS:

VERBAL LEARNING AND MEMORY: On a contextual memory task (i.e. stories),
the patient performed within the average range immediately following story
presentation, as well as following a delay. His recognition of story details
was in the low average range. When given a large amount of seemingly
unorganized information (i.e. 16-item list), The patient 's initial ability to
recall five-items immediately following presentation was in the average range.
He benefited significantly from repetition as he was able to recall 10 items
following the second presentation and following a fifth presentation, he was
able to successfully recall 13 of the 16 items (superior). When immediately
provided with a second list of 16-items, he was only able to recall three
items immediately following presentation (low average). His recall of the
first list following short and long delays was in the average range. Delayed
recognition was also average.

Of note, during his recalls, he made a large number of repetition errors
suggesting some difficulty with self-monitoring of his responses. He also did
not recognize and apply any organizational strategy. Taken together, The
patient's performance across measures of verbal learning and memory fell
within broad normal limits relative to others of same age. However, given his
very high level of premorbid functioning, his performance suggested some mild
weaknesses in encoding and retrieval that he is generally able to overcome
with repetition of information.

He also appeared to have some difficulty organizing and monitoring his
responses and difficulty with learning multiple simultaneous streams of
information.

NON-VERBAL LEARNING AND MEMORY: The patient's immediate recall of visual
designs was in the borderline range. However, he retained most of the
information that he initially learned following a delay and his performance
fell in the low average range. Recognition was average. Taken together, these
results again suggest that he had difficulties with encoding and retrieval of
nonverbal information. However, he was able to retain most of the reduced
amount of information that he had initially learned.

EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONING: As mentioned, initiation and verbal fluency fell in
the average range. It is mildly weaker than expected given The patient 's
strong premorbid functioning. He was also noted to make a number of repetition
errors on this task. Cognitive set shifting was generally within expected
limits and in the average to high average range. He was able to successfully
inhibit a prepotent response. On a task assessing cognitive flexibility
inductive reasoning and the ability to use feedback in order to correct an
ongoing response, The patient was noted to be quite impulsive and had
difficulty conceptualizing alternate means to apply strategies in order to
determine the correct answer and appeared to be somewhat distracted by
nonessential information. As mentioned above, he had a number of repetitions
and difficulty organizing information meaningfully on memory tasks. Taken
together, these results suggest mild weaknesses in aspects of frontal lobe
functioning.

MOTOR FUNCTIONING: The patient performed in the average range with both of
his right dominant hand and left nondominant hand on a speeded fine motor
coordination task.

EMOTIONAL FUNCTIONING: On an affective screening measure, the patient
endorsed only four items, which suggested that he was bothered by thoughts he
could not get out of his head, often felt helpless, felt downhearted and blue
and that his mind was not as clear as it used to be. Overall, these results
fell within normal limits and suggest that he is not currently experiencing a
clinical level of depressive symptoms.

SUMMARY & IMPRESSIONS:  The patient is a 76-year-old gentleman who was
referred for a neuropsychological evaluation due to possible changes in
memory. He has a history of two episodes of confusion and amnesia, the most
recent of which occurred in September 2009 with differential diagnosis
including seizure disorder versus transient global amnesia. On this
comprehensive evaluation, the patient demonstrated mild weaknesses relative to
his very high level of premorbid functioning on tasks assessing memory and
executive functioning.