

REASON FOR REFERRAL: The patient was referred for a neuropsychological
evaluation by Dr. X. A comprehensive evaluation was requested to assess
neuropsychological factors, clarify areas of strength and weakness, and to
assist in therapeutic program planning in light of episodes of syncope.

BRIEF SUMMARY & IMPRESSIONS:

RELEVANT HISTORY:  
Historical information was obtained from a review of available medical records
and an interview with  
the patient.

The patient presented to Dr. X on August 05, 2008 as she had been recently
hospitalized for prolonged episodes of syncope. She was referred to Dr. X for
diagnostic differentiation for possible seizures or other causes of syncope.
The patient reports an extensive neurological history. Her mother used alcohol
during her pregnancy with the patient. In spite of exposure to alcohol in
utero, the patient reported that she achieved "honors in school" and "looked
smart." She reported that she began to experience migraines at 11 years of
age. At 15 years of age, she reported that she was thought to have
hydrocephalus. She reported that she will frequently "bang her head against
the wall" to relieve the pain. The patient gave birth to her daughter at 17
years of age. At 18 years of age, she received a spinal tap as a procedure to
determine the cause of her severe headaches. She reported, in 1995 to 1996 she
experienced a severe head injury, as she was struck by a car as a pedestrian
and "thrown two and a half city blocks." The patient reported that she could
recall before being hit, but could not recall the activities of that same day
or the following day. She reported that she had difficulty walking following
this head injury, but received rehabilitation for approximately one month. Her
migraines became more severe following the head injury. In 1998, she
reportedly was experiencing episodes of syncope where she would experience a
headache with photophobia, phonophobia, and flashing lights. Following the
syncope episode, she would experience some confusion. These episodes
reportedly were related to her donating plasma.

The patient also reported that her ex-husband stated that she frequently
jerked and would shake in her sleep. She reported that upon awakening, she
would feel off balanced and somewhat confused. These episodes diminished from
2002 to June 2008. When making dinner, she suddenly dropped and hit the back
of her head on refrigerator. She reported that she was unconscious for five to
six minutes. A second episode occurred on July 20th when she lost
consciousness for may be a full day. She was admitted to Sinai Hospital and
assessed by a neurologist. Her EEG and head CT were considered to be
completely normal. She did not report any typical episodes during the time of
her 36-hour EEG. She reported that her last episode of syncope occurred prior
to her being hospitalized. She stated that she had an aura of her ears
ringing, vision being darker and "tunnel vision" (vision goes smaller to a
pinpoint), and she was "spazzing out" on the floor. During these episodes, she
reports that she cannot talk and has difficulty understanding.

The patient also reports that she has experienced some insomnia since she was
6 years old. She reported that she was a heavy drinker until about 1998 or
1999 and that she would drink a gallon daily of Jack Daniel. She stopped the
use of alcohol and that time she experienced a suicide attempt. In 2002, she
was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and was started on medication. At the time
of the neuropsychological evaluation, she had stopped taking her medicine as
she felt that she was now in remission and could manage her symptoms herself.
The patient's medical history is also significant for postpartum depression.

The patient reported that she has been experiencing difficulty with cognitive
abilities of attention/concentration, spelling, tangential and slow thinking,
poor sequencing memory for events, and variable verbal memory. She reported
that she sometimes has difficulty understanding what people say, specifically
she has difficulty understanding jokes. She finds that she often has
difficulty with expressing her thoughts, as she is very tangential. She
experiences episodes of not recalling what she was speaking of or remembering
what activities she was trying to perform. She reported that she had a
photographic memory for directions. She said that she experienced a great deal
of emotional lability, but in general her personality has become more subdued.
At the present time, her daughter has now moved on to college. The patient is
living with her biological mother. Although she is going through divorce, she
reported that it was not really stressful. She reported that she spends her
day driving other people around and trying to be helpful to them.

At the time of the neuropsychological evaluation, the patient's medication
included Ativan, Imitrex, Levoxyl, vitamin B12, albuterol metered dose inhaler
as needed, and Zofran as needed. (It should be noted that The patient by the
time of the feedback on September 19, 2008 had resumed taking her Trileptal
for bipolar disorder.). The patient's familial medical history is significant
for alcohol abuse, diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol.

TESTS ADMINISTERED:  
Clinical Interview  
Cognistat  
Mattis Dementia Rating Scale  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - III (WAIS-III)  
Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI)  
Selected Subtests from the Delis Kaplan Executive Function System (DKEFS)  
Trail Making Test  
Verbal Fluency (Letter Fluency & Category Fluency)  
Design Fluency  
Color-Word Interference Test  
Tower  
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST)  
Stroop Test  
Color Trails  
Trails A & B  
Test of Variables of Attention  
Multilingual Aphasia Examination II  
Token Test  
Sentence Repetition  
Visual Naming  
Controlled Oral Word Association  
Spelling Test  
Aural Comprehension  
Reading Comprehension  
Boston Naming Test-2 (BNT-2)  
Animal Naming Test  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (VMI)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Motor Coordination  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Perception  
Judgment Line Orientation  
Grooved Pegboard  
Purdue Pegboard  
Finger Tapping Test  
Rey Complex Figure  
Wechsler Memory Scale -III (WMS-III)  
California Verbal Learning Test  
Woodcock Johnson Achievement Test III  
Wide Range Achievement Test - IV  
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)  
State-Trait Inventory (STAIC)  
Adult History Questionnaire  
Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF)  
Adaptive Behavior Assessment System

BEHAVIOR OBSERVATIONS: The patient presented as a well-dressed and
African-American woman who developed a rapport with the examiner. She appeared
somewhat anxious and started the evaluation on the edge of her chair, although
she eventually tended to relax more. Overall, her affect and mood were
appropriate for the evaluation. Her speech was slightly above normal for rate,
speed, and intensity. She was slightly tangential. She appeared to have no
difficulty comprehending or expressing herself. Her performance was notable
for poor cognitive flexibility and impulsivity. She also demonstrated mild
psychomotor slowing. The patient was right-handed for writing and drawing.
Overall, she demonstrated adequate rates of attention/concentration,
cooperation, and perseverance. Therefore, the following evaluation is
considered to be an accurate reflection of her current cognitive abilities.

EVALUATION FINDINGS:  
Classification Level Percentile Rank Standard Score Scaled Score T-Score  
Superior > 95 120 > 14 > 66  
High Average 76-95 11-124 13-14 58-66  
Average 25-75 90-110 8-12 44-57  
Low Average 9-24 80-89 7 37-43  
Borderline 9-10 70-79 6 30-36  
Mildly Impaired 5-8 < 70 4-5 < 30  
Moderately Impaired 2-4 3  
Deficient/Impaired < 2 1-2

ORIENTATION: The patient was oriented to person, place, and time.

GENERAL COGNITIVE ABILITY: The patient 's overall intellectual ability
fell in the average range. There was no statistically significant discrepancy
between her verbal and her performance (nonverbal) intellect.

ATTENTION/ EXECUTIVE FUNCTION: The patient did well on measures of verbal
and design fluency as her performance fell in the average range. On a trial
making task, she did well on all versions of the test including number, letter
sequencing with the exception of the motor speed task. On this measure, she
did not listen fully to the instructions and reduced her speed. On a color
word interference task, her performance for inhibiting responses fell in low
average range and was a subtle change from her high end of average performance
on color naming and word reading. On measures of visual and verbal working
memory, her performance was solidly in the average range.

The patient completed a valid Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive
Functioning. On this measure, she indicated that she was experiencing
difficulties with cognitive inflexibility, emotional dyscontrol, and poor
working memory.

LANGUAGE FUNCTION: The patient had a difficulty with measures that are
related more to verbal comprehension. She had significant difficulty with
repeating sentences and difficulty with following commands. On the command
comprehension measure, she had difficulty with sequencing and two-step
commands. On sentence repetition, she had difficulty remembering the details
of the sentence that she repeated. On a naming to command measure, her
performance fell in the average range and on the verbal fluency measure both
semantic and phonemic, her performance fell in the average range. Overall,
this pattern of performance suggests mild receptive language difficulties and
difficulty with sequencing.

VISUAL-SPATIAL & VISUAL-MOTOR FUNCTION:  On a visual spatial
discrimination task, her performance fell solidly in the average range. On a
measure of fine motor manual dexterity, her right hand and left hand
performance fell in the average range and when she was required to use both
hands simultaneously, her performance decreased slightly into the low average
range.

LEARNING & MEMORY SKILLS: On a five-trial 16-item verbal list learning
measure, the patient's rate of acquisition fell in the high average range.
When a interference list was introduced, she had some difficulty learning the
interference list as she could only recall 25% of the words. However,
following the introduction of this list, she was still able to recall 15 of
the 16 words from the original list. Following a 20-minute delay, she was able
to recall 15 of the 16 words. She entirely used a semantic cluster strategy.
Overall, her performance fell in the high average range on this measure. On a
story (prose) verbal memory measure, her immediate and delayed (30 minute)
recall both fell in the high average range.

On the copy of the complex geometric design, her visual spatial organization
was poor and her performance fell in the low average range. Her immediate
recall of the design fell in the borderline range and following a 30-minute
delay, she lost even more details to decline into the mildly impaired range.
In general, her copy of the design was notable for its lack of overall
configuration and good stop. Her immediate recall failed to maintain a good
stop overall configuration design and was void of details. The design further
decompensated after a 30-minute delay as she lost further configuration and
details. It is thought that her poor performance on this could represent some
difficulty in visual memory, but most likely is due to poor initial encoding
and organization of the design. On facial recognition task, her immediate
recognition of the faces fell in the high average range. Following a 30-minute
delay, though her performance declined to the low end of average, this is a
significant discrepancy and suggested that she did have difficulty retaining
and retrieving the information that she had stored. Therefore, a subtle mild
weakness is in visual spatial memory.

ACADEMIC FUNCTION:

BEHAVIORAL/EMOTIONAL FUNCTION: The patient was administered a MMPI-2. Her
responses unfortunately were completely invalid due to an over endorsement of
symptoms. Typically, an over endorsement of symptoms is indicative of
significant affective distress or a need for attention. On this measure,  
The patient reported an elevated level of affective distress and unusual
ideation. Her profile is consistent with patients who may demonstrate their
affective distress through physical means. Overall, this pattern should be
interpreted very cautiously due to the invalid nature of the profile.

SUMMARY & IMPRESSIONS: The patient was referred by neurologist for a
neuropsychological evaluation for diagnostic clarity, and specific
recommendations for medical and psychological intervention in light of
undiagnosed episodes of syncope.

In summary, the patient's neuropsychological evaluation revealed selective
deficits of executive system dysfunction, mild receptive language difficulties
(partially due to executive system dysfunction) and subtle visual memory
storage and retrieval superimposed upon an average level of intellect. Her
MMPI-2 was invalid, but indicated that she was undergoing significant stress
and that she is more likely to demonstrate her stress through physical and
cognitive rather than emotional display.

The patient's neurobehavioral risk factors are significant for chronic history
of migraines, bipolar disorder, depression, reported in utero exposure to
alcohol, history of heavy substance abuse, and use of neuropsychiatric
medication. Bipolar affective disorder is known to impact executive system
dysfunction as patients have difficulty with impulsivity, cognitive
flexibility, working memory, emotional control, and self-monitoring. The
patient's performance is certainly consistent with this report. Medication can
also have an effect on executive system functioning and
attention/concentration. Despite this, it is far better for her to have access
to neuropsychiatric medication to balance her mood swings. There was some mild
evidence of decreased visual spatial memory for retrieval in contrast to high
average verbal memory. Although she had difficulty on measures of
comprehension, it was likely due to decreased attention and concentration
given that she was able to perform other tasks that require receptive language
very well (verbal memory). Given The patient's history, she has done
extraordinarily well and many of her cognitive abilities are intact, which
allow her to function at a very high level. It is strongly recommended that
she share these results with her psychiatrist/psychologist to assist in any
treatment planning for her and to continue to make positive and achievable
goals for The patient.

You may wish to consider the following recommendations to improve The
patient's quality of life.

RECOMMENDATIONS:  
 MEDICAL:  
1. Please share these results with Dr. X to determine any need to change in
her medical treatment.  
2. It is critical that the patient take care of herself and reduce her
distress. In particular, she should make sure that she has a normalized
sleeping pattern and she is eating appropriately and getting appropriate rest.  
Psychological:  
1. She should share these results with her psychiatrist/psychologist, to
assess for any change in her current psychological treatment.  
2. It is likely that the patient will need to stay on medication to treat her
bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder does not go into remission and sadly is a
chronic disorder.  
3. In psychotherapy, it is important for goals to be set for the patient and
that she can achieve those goals. It is apparent that she is frequently
feeling overwhelmed and does not understand how to be able to take care of
herself and ways that are not needing medical care. Goals to increase her
sleep and reduce her stress may be fundamental, but are certainly required in
her case.

OCCUPATIONAL: The patient has many strong abilities and with balance of
her emotional life, there is no reason why she cannot return to work. Her work
setting should be in a well structured place with minimal multitasking and
will keep a people contact.