

REASON FOR REFERRAL: Ms. A is a 60-year-old African-American female with
12 years of education who was referred for neuropsychological evaluation by
Dr. X after she demonstrated mild cognitive deficits on a neuropsychological
screening evaluation during a followup appointment with him for stroke in
July. A comprehensive evaluation was requested to assess current cognitive
functioning and assist with diagnostic decisions and treatment planning.

RELEVANT BACKGROUND INFORMATION: Historical information was obtained from
a review of available medical records and clinical interview with Ms. A. A
summary of pertinent information is presented below. Please refer to the
patient 's medical chart for a more complete history.

HISTORY OF PRESENTING PROBLEM: Ms. A presented to the ABC Hospital
emergency department on 07/26/2009 reporting that after she had woken up that
morning she noticed numbness and weakness in her left hand, slurred speech,
and left facial droop. Neurological evaluation with Dr. X confirmed left
hemiparesis. Brain CT showed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage or mass
effect and that she received TPA and had moderate improvement in left-sided
weakness. These symptoms were thought to be due to a right middle cerebral
artery stroke. She was transferred to the ICU for monitoring. Ultrasound of
the carotids showed 20% to 30% stenosis of the right ICA and 0% to 19%
stenosis of the left ICA. On 07/29/2009, she was admitted for acute inpatient
rehabilitation for the treatment of residual functional deficits of her acute
ischemic right MCA/CVA. At discharge on 08/06/2009, she was mainly on
supervision for all ADLs and walking with a rolling walker, but tolerating
increased ambulation with a cane. She was discharged home with recommendations
for outpatient physical therapy. She returned to the Sinai ER on 08/2009/2009
due to reported left arm pain, numbness, and weakness, which lasted 10 to 15
minutes and she reported that it felt  "just like the stroke." Brain CT on
08/2009/2009 was read as showing "mild chronic microvascular ischemic change
of deep white matter," but no acute or significant interval change compared to
her previous scan. Neurological examination with Dr. Y was within normal
limits, but she was admitted for a more extensive workup. Due to left arm pain
an ultrasound was completed on her left upper extremity, but it did not show
deep vein thrombosis.

Followup CT on 08/10/2009 showed no significant interval change. MRI could not
be completed due to the patient's weight. She was discharged on 08/11/2009 in
stable condition after it was determined that this event was not neurological
in origin; however, note that Ms. A referred to this as a second stroke.

Ms. A presented for a followup outpatient neurological evaluation with Dr. X
on 09/22/2009, at which time a brief neuropsychological screening was also
conducted. She demonstrated significant impairments in confrontation naming,
abstract verbal reasoning, and visual and verbal memory and thus a more
comprehensive evaluation was suggested due to her intent to return to her
full-time work duty. During the current interview, Ms. A reported that she
noticed mild memory problems including some difficultly remembering
conversations, events, and at times forgetting to take her medications. She
also reported mild difficulty finding words in conversation, solving novel
problems and tasks (e.g. difficulty learning to use her camcorder), but
overall denied significant cognitive deficits in attention, concentration,
language or other areas of cognitive functioning. When asked about her return
to work, she said that she was still on light duty due to limited physical
activity because of residual left leg weakness. She reported that no one had
indicated to her that she appeared less capable of performing her job duties,
but said that she was also receiving fewer files to process and enter data
into the computer at the Social Security Agency that she works at. Note also
that she had some difficulty explaining exactly what her job involved. She
also reported having problems falling asleep at work and that she is working
full-time although on light duty.

OTHER MEDICAL HISTORY: As mentioned, Ms. A continues to have some residual
left leg weakness and continues to use a rolling walker for ambulation, but
she reported that her motor functioning had improved significantly. She was
diagnosed with sleep apnea approximately two years ago and was recently
counseled by Dr. X on the need to use her CPAP because she indicated she never
used it at night. She reported that since her appointment with Dr. X, she has
been using it "every other night." When asked about daytime fatigue, Ms. A
initially denied that she was having any difficulties, but repeatedly
indicated that she was falling asleep at work and thought that it was due to
looking at a computer screen. She reported at times "snoring" and forgetting
where she is at and said that a supervisor offered to give her coffee at one
point. She receives approximately two to five hours of sleep per night. Other
current untreated risk factors include obesity and hypercholesterolemia. Her
medical history is also significant for hypertension, asthma, abdominal
adenocarcinoma status post hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy,
colonic benign polyps status post resection, benign lesions of the breast
status post lumpectomy, and deep vein thrombosis in the left lower extremity
status post six months of anticoagulation (which she had discontinued just
prior to her stroke).

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg daily, Colace 100 mg b.i.d., Lipitor 80
mg daily, and albuterol MDI p.r.n.

SUBSTANCE USE: Ms. A denied drinking alcohol or using illicit drugs. She
used to smoke a pack of cigarettes per day, but quit five to six years ago.

FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY: Ms. A had difficulty providing information on
familial medical history. She reported that her mother died three to four
years ago from lung cancer. Her father has gout and blood clots. Siblings have
reportedly been treated for asthma and GI tumors. She was unsure of familial
history of other conditions such as hypertension, high cholesterol, stroke,
etc.

SOCIAL HISTORY: Ms. A completed high school degree. She reported that she
primarily obtained B 's and C's in school. She received some tutoring for
algebra in middle school, but denied ever having been held back a grade
failing any classes or having any problems with attention or hyperactivity.

She currently works for the Social Security Administration in data processing.
As mentioned, she has returned to full-time work, but continues to perform
only light duties due to her physical condition. She is now living on her own.
She has never driven. She reported that she continues to perform ADLs
independently such as cooking and cleaning. She lost her husband in 2005 and
has three adult daughters. She previously reported some concerns that her
children wanted her to move into assisted living, but she did not discuss that
during this current evaluation. She also reported number of other family
members who had recently passed away. She has returned to activities she
enjoys such as quire, knitting, and cooking and plans to go on a cruise to the
Bahamas at the end of October.

PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: Ms. A did not report a history of psychological or
psychiatric treatment. She reported that her current mood was good, but did
describe some anxiety and nervousness about various issues such as her return
to work, her upcoming trip, and other events. She reported that this only
"comes and goes."

TASKS ADMINISTERED:  
Clinical Interview  
Adult History Questionnaire  
Wechsler Test of Adult Reading (WTAR)  
Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE)  
Cognistat Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination  
Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS;
Form XX)  
Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, 2nd Edition (DRS-2)  
Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB)  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Third Edition (WAIS-III)  
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV)  
Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI)  
Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA)  
Auditory Consonant Trigrams (ACT)  
Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT)  
Ruff 2 & 7 Selective Attention Test  
Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT)  
Multilingual Aphasia Examination, Second Edition (MAE-II)  
Token Test  
Sentence Repetition  
Visual Naming  
Controlled Oral Word Association  
Spelling Test  
Aural Comprehension  
Reading Comprehension  
Boston Naming Test, Second Edition (BNT-2)  
Animal Naming Test  
Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT: F-A-S)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (VMI)  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Motor Coordination  
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Perception  
Hooper Visual Organization Test (VOT)  
Judgment of Line Orientation (JOLO)  
Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT)  
Wechsler Memory Scale, Third Edition (WMS-III)  
Wechsler Memory Scale, Fourth Edition (WMS-IV)  
California Verbal Learning Test, Second Edition (CVLT-II)  
Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT)  
Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS)  
Trail Making Test  
Verbal Fluency (Letter & Category)  
Design Fluency  
Color-Word Interference Test  
Tower  
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST)  
Stroop Color-Word Test  
Color Trails  
Trail Making Test A & B  
Wide Range Achievement Test, Fourth Edition (WRAT-IV)  
Woodcock Johnson Tests of Achievement, Third Edition (WJ-III)  
Nelson-Denny Reading Test  
Grooved Pegboard  
Purdue Pegboard  
Finger Tapping Test  
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)  
Mood Assessment Scale (MAS)  
State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)  
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Second Edition (MMPI-2)  
Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory, Third Edition (MCMI-III)  
Millon Behavioral Medicine Diagnostic (MBMD)  
Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF)  
Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, Second Edition (ABAS-II)

BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS: Ms. A arrived alone and on time for her
appointment. She walked with a cane and was short of breath while walking. No
other significant psychomotor abnormalities were noted. Vision and hearing
appeared to be adequate for testing, although she did indicate that she needed
to update her eyeglass prescription. She was appropriately dressed and
groomed. Rapport was easily established and eye contact was appropriate. She
was oriented to person and place, but not fully oriented to time as she said
that it was Monday rather than Tuesday. She was very talkative and speech
tended to be somewhat disorganized and circumstantial. She had difficulty
answering questions in a concise and succinct manner with notable difficulties
in generalizing her experience (e.g. tended to respond to general questions in
a very specific manner with a high level of detail). She would at times talk
while completing tasks and was reminded to focus on the task at hand.
Receptive language abilities appeared to be within broad normal limits as she
was able to appropriately respond to the examiner's questions and
instructions.

Thought processes were somewhat circumstantial as already noted, but no overt
thought disturbances were noted. Mood appeared to be euthymic. Affect was full
ranged. She was noted to be somewhat impulsive and disinhibited and the vowel
receptive language abilities were intact. In general, she had difficulty
responding to more abstract or general questions. She was noted to be very
tired throughout the evaluation. She said that she fell asleep during a
sustained attention task, although this was not noted by the examiner. The
examiner did observe her falling asleep at points during task instructions and
she also slept in the lobby throughout lunchtime and had to be awoken to
resume testing. Her fatigue likely affected her performance on certain tasks.

Overall, Ms. A appeared to put full effort into all the tasks during this
evaluation although as noted her fatigue likely impacted her performance to
some degree and these test results will be interpreted with that in mind. The
patient did not recognize this examiner when she returned for this evaluation.

GENERAL COGNITIVE ABILITY: Premorbid intellectual functioning as assessed
with the word reading test fell in the average to low average range. Her
performances on measures assessing current intellectual functioning suggested
some weaknesses in stored verbal knowledge and both verbal and visual abstract
reasoning (all borderline). Visuospatial construction was in the low average
range.

ATTENTION: Ms. A demonstrated weaknesses in certain aspects of attention
and concentration. For auditory verbal information, she was able to accurately
process basic immediate information, but had more difficulty when active
attentional abilities were required and she had to manipulate information in
mind. On visually-based tasks, again simple attentional abilities such as
visual scanning and basic processing of information were within the average
range; however, it was noted that there was a trade-off between speed and
accuracy in her performances on more complex attentional tasks that required
greater levels of focus as she tended to complete the task slowly in order to
accurately discriminate between target and nontarget visual stimuli. On a
visual sustained attention task, her overall number of errors and response
rate were within broad normal limits, but it was noted that her response speed
slowed and the accuracy of her responses became less consistent as the test
progressed suggesting weaknesses in vigilance. It was also noted that she was
slower to respond and there was more variability in response accuracy when
stimuli were presented with longer interstimulus intervals suggesting some
weaknesses in arousal and activation when information was presented at a
slower rate. Taking together these results highlight deficits in working
memory (e.g. complex attention and mental manipulation), sustained attention
and vigilance while her more basic and immediate attentional abilities were
within broad normal limits. Fatigue was likely a factor in these results. It
is unlikely that Ms. A actually fell asleep during this task as her error rate
is not very high; however, there were noted decreases in measures that are
sensitive to arousal and activation.

INFORMATION PROCESSING SPEED: As mentioned, Ms. A tended to perform within
expected limits on brief verbal and visual tasks that involved basic
processing. She had more difficulty maintaining consistency in her response
rate and tended to become slower on tasks that require sustained attention and
more complex discrimination of stimuli.

LANGUAGE: Confrontation naming was in the impaired range, but this may be
in part due to lack of familiarity with certain objects given her weak
performance on tasks assessing stored verbal knowledge. Minor errors were
noted on sentence repetition task, but this may be due to weaknesses in
attention and working memory.

Similarly, her low average performance on a verbal comprehension task may have
been due to some weaknesses in vigilance as she was noted to fall asleep at
times during this task. Verbal fluency for both phonemic and semantic cues was
within the average range. As taken together some weaknesses in aspects of
language appear to have been due to limitations in attention and verbal
knowledge store.

VISUOSPATIAL PERCEPTION AND ORGANIZATION: Ms. A performed within the
average range and within expected limits on visuospatial construction tasks
that involved matching to a sample using either blocks or drawing; however,
she had notable difficulties when we attempted to assess her perception of
angular line orientations. These results suggest some reliance on external
cues and information for accurate interpretation of visuospatial stimuli and
difficulty with perception when such cues are not present to structure her
perception. Note that fatigue may have also been a factor here as well.

LEARNING & MEMORY SKILLS:

VERBAL LEARNING AND MEMORY: On contextual memory task (i.e. stories), Ms.
A performed in the borderline range in immediate recall. Following a delay,
she retained 62% of the information that she originally learned and recall was
again in the borderline range. Delayed recognition was low average. On a task
assessing her ability to learn large amounts of seemingly unorganized
information (i.e. list), her initial acquisition of information was in the low
average range. With repetition, her performance improved and her overall
immediate learning fell in the average range. Following a short delay, she was
only able to spontaneously recall about a third of the information that she
had initially learned and her overall performance fell in the borderline
range. With cueing, she was able to recall more information, but relative to
her same age peers this performance still fell in the borderline range. Recall
following a long delay was in the borderline to low average range and
recognition was borderline as she did not recognize a number of the original
target stimuli. Of note, she made a number of repetitions and intrusion errors
some of which were semantically related to the list target items and were
repeatedly given suggesting some difficulty in correcting her responses with
feedback and in monitoring or organizing her responses. Taken together these
results highlight difficulties in learning large amounts of verbal information
due primarily to difficulties with the initial organizing or learning of the
information, although some weaknesses in retrieval were also noted. These
results are likely due to the above noted attention and working memory
deficits as she was able to at least recognize most of the information that
she had initially learned.

NON-VERBAL/VISUAL LEARNING AND MEMORY: Ms. A 's initial recall of the
details in spatial location of the series of visual designs is in the low
average range. She retained most of this information following a delay with
recall and recognition falling in the average range. Immediate recall of a
complex figure drawing was in the average range. Following a 30-minute delay,
she retained most of this information although statistically her result fell
in the low average range. Recognition of the individual component parts of the
larger figure fell in the low average range. Taken together these results
suggest that Ms. A was mildly limited in the amount of information that she
could initially learn, but the fact that she was able to retain most of that
information over time suggests that any difficulties in learning visual
information occurred during initial encoding. This pattern of results is
similar to those found for verbal information.

EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONING: Ms. A performed within the low average-to-average
range on tasks assessing verbal fluency, cognitive set shifting, and
inhibition of prepotent responses; however, it should be noted that Ms. A made
a number of errors on these tasks particularly for inhibition, although she
was able to successfully correct those errors.

Across tasks and during interactions it was noted that Ms. A had some
weaknesses in organization. Visual and verbal abstract reasoning were in the
borderline range and deficits in working memory were noted. Taken together
these results highlight some weaknesses in executive functioning.

MOTOR/PSYCHOMOTOR FUNCTIONING: Ms. A performed in the impaired range with
her dominant right hand and her nondominant hand on a task assessing speeded
fine motor coordination.

EMOTIONAL FUNCTIONING: Ms. A 's overall score on a self-report effective
screening measure suggested that she is currently experiencing mild levels of
depression. She endorsed symptoms related to dysphoria, anxiety, lack of
energy, anhedonia, hopelessness, and cognitive problems.

SUMMARY & IMPRESSIONS:  Ms. A was referred for a neuropsychological
evaluation by Dr. X, M.D. to follow up noted cognitive weaknesses following a
right middle cerebral artery stroke that was seen on a neuropsychological
screening. Test results suggested that Ms. A was premorbidly performing in the
low average to average range. Based on this estimate, she performed within
expected limits on tasks assessing immediate attention and speed for
processing brief, simple, and straightforward information. Most aspects of
language (i.e. repetition, comprehension, and fluency), and visuospatial
construction (i.e. matching to sample). Deficits were seen primarily in the
areas of complex attention or working memory and sustained attention. She had
difficulty mentally manipulating information in mind and on longer task that
required focus. She demonstrated poor vigilance, difficulty with
discrimination of stimuli, and declines in arousal and activation. These
attentional deficits affected her ability to learn verbal and visual
information. Weaknesses in executive functioning were also noted based on her
performances across tasks as well as behavioral observations as she
demonstrated weaknesses in abstract thinking, organization, inhibition, and
behavioral and response regulation. Combined with the deficits seen for fine
motor skills, these results are consistent with frontal subcortical changes as
were seen on her CAT scan. In addition, Ms. A demonstrated some difficulty
completing a task that involved interpreting directionally based visuospatial
stimuli in the absence of other cues to aid with perception and these findings
may be consistent with the involvement of the right hemisphere in her recent
stroke; however, given that no MRI was conducted it is difficult to say
whether or not there are specific regions of infarct in her right hemisphere.

Overall, these results are consistent with those seen on her recent
neuropsychological screening. This evaluation was requested in order to
further clarify those results. As noted above, Ms. A does have a number of
areas of deficit; however, these results do not support a dementing process at
this time. The pattern of findings as mentioned are consistent with
subcortical changes, but may also be secondary to her poorly treated sleep
apnea as she was noticeably tired and particular deficits were noticed on
tasks that required complex or sustained attention. Thus it will be important
for Ms. A to increase compliance with treatment for sleep apnea and also to
ensure that other cardiovascular risk factors are monitored and controlled
through diet, exercise, and medication. Given that she is working full-time
and these cognitive deficits could create significant problems on the job, it
will be important that Ms. A address these issues while she is still
completing a lighter load at work. Additional recommendations are provided
below.

RECOMMENDATIONS:  
1. It is imperative that Ms. A address her sleep apnea and comply
consistently i.e. every evening with wearing her CPAP. Given that she
continues to complain about it and report the claustrophobia prevents her from
using it regularly, Ms. A should see a sleep specialist in order to determine
alternate ways to address this problem.  
2. Ms. A reported mild levels of depression and anxiety on this evaluation
and it was previously recommended that she contact XYZ to inquire about
counseling and management of multiple life stressors.  
3. Ms. A should see an ophthalmologist to update her eyeglass prescription.
It may have contributed to the noted deficits on one visuospatial task.  
4. Continued PT and home exercises I recommended to improve physical
abilities.  
5. Ms. A is likely not obtaining enough physical exercise and it is suggested
that she work with her physical therapist and primary care physician to
determine exercise regimen in order to help her lose weight.  
6. The following recommendations are provided to aid Ms. A with the noted
difficulties with attention and memory. She may also benefit from cognitive
therapy in order to learn to apply these strategies at work.  
7. Ms. A's cardio and cerebrovascular risk factors should be closely
monitored and the results of this evaluation should be shared with all of her
physicians.

Thank you for referring this interesting patient for evaluation. A
neuropsychological reevaluation is recommended in one to two years in order to
monitor cognitive functioning. Reevaluation should occur earlier if there is
any worsening of cognitive functioning.