

COMPREHENSIVE CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATION

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Nexium 4 mg 4 times per day, Propanolol 10 mg 4 times
a day, Spironolactone 100 mg 3 times per day, Lactulose 60 cc 's 3 times a
day.

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS: Mr. Abc, a 54-year-old black married male who was
referred for a Comprehensive Clinical Psychological Evaluation as part of a
Disability Determination action. Mr. Abc arrived five minutes late for his
scheduled appointment. He was accompanied to the office by his sister-in-law
who drove him to the appt. Mr. Abc currently does not receive Disability
benefits. This is the first time he has filed for Disability. The
Authorization form listed Mr. Abc's current complaints as "cirrhosis of the
liver and mental issues." Mr. Abc was well groomed and wore casual attire. He
looked older than his stated age. The whites of his eyes were very jaundiced.
His posture was slightly stooped and his gait was slow. He was winded after
walking up the stairs. Psychomotor activity was retarded. Mr. Abc was
cooperative throughout the interview. Although he appeared to be answering
most questions to the best of his ability, he appeared to be minimizing his
emotional distress.

PRESENT ILLNESS: Most information was provided by Mr. Abc who appeared to
be a fairly reliable source. His information was supplemented by review of his
medical records. Mr. Abc has applied for Federal Disability benefits believing
that he qualifies based on his cirrhosis of the liver and his cognitive
dysfunction. Mr. Abc was diagnosed with cirrhosis in 1991. His condition has
worsened to the point that he is experiencing liver failure and is awaiting a
liver transplant. He stated that his main symptom is extreme fatigue. He has
no energy and is unable to engage in many activities. Over the past year he
was admitted to the hospital four times for confusion and bizarre behavior. He
stated that his sister-in-law and his wife told him that he had become violent
and he fought with the Sherriff who was trying to take him to the hospital. He
has no memory of this. Mr. Abc stated that he was hospitalized one time.
Actually he had begun having problems with confusion in July of 2004 and he
has been treated four times since that time. According to his medical records,
he was found wandering outside of his home. He was apparently delusional
believing that a tree branch was a doorknob. Mr. Abc also suffers from edema
and swelling in his legs and his feet. Mr. Abc attempted to return to work and
found that he was unable to do his job due to the necessity of walking one-
quarter mile from the front to the back of the plant. He was unable to walk
very far without becoming fatigued. He had instances where he had passed out
after becoming faint. He had trouble at work sitting for very long because his
feet swelled. He was unable to lift the required 10 pounds of medication
boxes. When he found himself unable to do his regular job, he tried another
job at the same plant but was unable to do that job. He also became confused
easily at work. His doctor advised him to quit and then he did so in March of
this year. In addition to his cognitive symptoms, Mr. Abc has had some
disturbance in mood as well. He related that he feels very sad since he lost
his job. A lot of his self-esteem came from working. He worries about
financial problems. His sleep has been disturbed. He sleeps four to five hours
a night with trouble falling asleep and frequent awakening in the middle of
the night. His appetite is fair.

PERSONAL, FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY: Mr. Abc completed the 11th grade. He
went on to get his GED in 1971. He stated that he has never failed a grade and
he has no history of a learning disability. He received no special education
services. His grades were Bs and Cs. He stated that he was suspended from
school one time for fighting but got along well in general. Mr. Abc is
currently unemployed. His last job was at Baxter Health Care where he worked
for four years. It was his longest place of employment. He quit in March of
2005 because of fatigue and inability to perform the necessary job duties. He
denies that he was ever fired from a job and he reported good work
relationships. Mr. Abc has been married for two years. He has no prior
marriages. He has one daughter age 13. He currently lives with his wife. Has
been at his current address for four years.

HISTORY OF OTHER PERTINENT MEDICAL EVENTS: Mr. Abc has cirrhosis of the
liver, hepatitis C, hepatic encephalopathy, and gastroesophageal reflux
disease, and hypertension. Surgeries include a cardiac catheterization in
2001, a liver biopsy in 2003. Over the past year he has been hospitalized four
times due to confusion and bizarre behaviors stemming from his liver failure.

DAILY ACTIVITIES AND FUNCTIONING: Mr. Abc stated that he tries to do
things but he has been severely restricted due to his extreme fatigue. He
enjoys reading and does it regularly. He tries to help his wife with the
household chores as he can. He has washed dishes, cooked, mopped, dusted,
vacuumed and has done laundry occasionally over the past month but not as much
as he used to. He stated that he used to mow the yard and do yard work but he
can no longer do it because of his extreme fatigue. He has given up driving
all together and he no longer goes out alone. He spends most days at home. He
enjoys going to church and he prays daily.

MENTAL HEALTH HISTORY: Mr. Abc has never been diagnosed or treated for a
mental health disorder. He denied any history of mental health problems in his
family. He stated that he was evaluated one time earlier this year by a
psychiatrist to determine his suitability for a liver transplant. He was
approved and he is now on the waiting list to receive a liver.

SUBSTANCE USE HISTORY: Mr. Abc has a history of substance use beginning in
his teenage years. He has used alcohol, marijuana and cocaine. He stated that
he only used the marijuana and cocaine a few times when he was young but he
continued using alcohol until recently. His alcohol use became problematic and
he was arrested for DWI three times. He attended AA and the DART program. Mr.
Abc stated that he has been clean for eight years and five months.

MENTAL STATUS: Mr. Abc was given a four page questionnaire to complete. He
had only been able to complete a few answers after 20 minutes and then was
observed letting his sister-in-law fill it out for him. Mr. Abc was of average
height and weight. He was casually dressed and groomed appropriately. He was
missing a bottom front tooth. He appeared his stated age. He was alert and
responsive. He was oriented to time, person, place and situation. He was
cooperative throughout the interview. Eye contact was good. Psychomotor
activity was retarded. Affect was constricted. Mood was sad. Speech was fluent
and goal-directed. Mr. Abc had a slight slur to his speech which may have been
caused by his missing front tooth. Rates, rhythm and volume were within normal
limits although he spoke on the slow side. Thought processes were coherent but
Mr. Abc supplied a paucity of ideas. He seemed to have problems generating
details of past events. His answers were minimal and he used few words.
Thought content focused on feeling bad about his limitations, his illness and
losing his job. He denied any delusional thoughts but apparently he has had
some periods of delusional thinking in the past which has been documented in
his medical record. His memory was adequate for recent events. His memory was
impaired for remote events. Attention and concentration were adequate.
Thinking was very concrete. Mr. Abc denied any suicidal or homicidal thoughts
or plans. Judgment and insight were adequate. He reported that his sleep is
impaired. He sleeps four to five hours per night. Appetite is fair. He denied
any perceptual disturbances, but stated that he had had some illusions and
visual hallucinations several years ago while he was having delirium tremens.

COGNITIVE RESPONSES:  
1. Who is the current President of the United States? "George Bush."  
2. Name four large cities in the United States? "New York, LA, Houston,
Dallas."  
3. Why do we wash clothes? "So you'll have something clean to wear. I
wouldn't want to have to wear the same clothes the next day."  
4. What should you do if while in the movies you are the first person to see
smoke and fire? "I would go tell someone or if they have an alarm, I'd pull
it."  
5. What does the saying Strike while the iron is hot mean? "If you've got a
good thing going you better keep going."  
6. How much is 12 plus 14? "26."  
7. How much is 18 minus six? "12."  
8. Starting with 3 count by 3′s. "3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21." (Immediate
response)  
9. Counting backwards from 30 by 2′s. "30, 28, 26, 24, 22, 20."  
10. What did you have for dinner last night? "Salad, a little bit of
spaghetti, ice water." (Delayed response)  
11. What did you watch on TV last night? "Platoons, the news."  
12. What is today's date? "July 21st, 2005."  
13. In what town are you currently located? "Morganton."  
14. Why are you here today? "To be evaluated."  
15. Immediate recall of ball, car, and hat. "Car, ball, and hat."

DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION:  
Axis I: Mood disorder, NOS. Cognitive disorder, NOS.  
Axis II: None.  
Axis III: Cirrhosis of the liver, hepatitis C, hepatic encephalopathy,
gastroesophageal reflux disease.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS: Mr. Abc is estimated to be within the average
range of intellectual functioning. He has adequate insight and judgment. He
has filed for Federal Disability benefits, believing that he qualifies for
them based on symptoms associated with his cirrhosis of the liver. He has been
experiencing extreme fatigue and has had to limit his activities because of
it. He has swelling in his extremities and is unable to sit for long periods
of time. He is unable to walk for even short distances without tiring. He has
been hospitalized four times over the past year due to cognitive problem,
disorientation and bizarre behaviors. At this time, Mr. Abc is experiencing
some mood disturbance. It appears that this might be secondary to his health
problems but given the claimant 's tendencies to minimize his mental health
symptoms and to fail to give adequate historical details, it is difficult to
know for sure. Based on presentation, intellectually and cognitively, it is
believed that Mr. Abc could not complete work-related tasks satisfactorily.
Emotionally and socially, it is believed that he could not tolerate work
stressors and could not adjust to a work environment and schedule. At this
time, it is believed that his cognitive dysfunction would be a hindrance to
him in a work setting.

CAPABILITY: If Mr. Abc were to receive benefits, it appears that he would
not need a payee.