

Thank you very much for referring Mr. Y for pulmonary evaluation. As you know,
he is an 85-year-old man who has been referred for complaints of significant
coughing and wheezing. The patient was originally seen on 15/02/2008. At that
time he was complaining of the same symptoms as well as a recent CBA. The
patient had a respiratory evaluation six months ago that was reported to be
okay but he still complains of still some difficulty at the time of
swallowing. His followup today was done after the patient underwent initial
swallowing evaluation. He is still complaining of cough, wheezing, and
congestion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Unremarkable, except for diabetes and
atherosclerotic vascular disease.

ALLERGIES: PENICILLIN.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Include Glucovance, Seroquel, Flomax, and Nexium.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Appendectomy and exploratory laparotomy.

FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a non-smoker. No alcohol abuse. The patient
is married with no children.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Significant for an old CVA.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an elderly male alert and
cooperative. Blood pressure 96/60 mmHg. Respirations were 20. Pulse 94.
Afebrile. O2 was 94% on room air. HEENT: Normocephalic and atraumatic. Pupils
are reactive. Oral mucosa is grossly normal. Neck is supple. Lungs: Decreased
breath sounds. Disturbed breath sounds with poor exchange. Heart: Regular
rhythm. Abdomen: Soft and nontender. No organomegaly or masses. Extremities:
No cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.

LABORATORY DATA: Oropharyngeal evaluation done on 11/02/2006 revealed mild
oropharyngeal dysphagia with no evidence of laryngeal penetration or
aspiration with food or liquid. Slight reduction in tongue retraction
resulting in mild residual remaining in the palatal sinuses, which clear with
liquid swallow and double-saliva swallow.

ASSESSMENT:  
1. Cough probably multifactorial combination of gastroesophageal reflux and
recurrent aspiration.  
2. Old CVA with left hemiparesis.  
3. Oropharyngeal dysphagia.  
4. Diabetes.

PLAN: At the present time, the patient is recommended to continue on a
regular diet, continue speech pathology evaluation as well as perform double-
swallow during meals with bolus sensation. He may use Italian lemon ice during
meals to help clear sinuses as well. The patient will follow up with you. If
you need any further assistance, do not hesitate to call me.