

Mr. XXXX does state that he did undergo surgical intervention as related to
the right knee and it was noted that the reconstruction had failed. A screw
had come loose. Thereafter, Dr. X felt that two additional surgeries were
indicated, that related to a bone graft and a reconstruction of the ACL with
allograft.

Thereafter, he was evaluated and it was felt that further reconstruction as
related to the anterior cruciate ligament was definitely not indicated. On
December 5, 2008, Mr. XXXX did undergo a total knee replacement arthroplasty
performed by Dr. X.

Thereafter, he did an extensive course of physical therapy, work hardening,
and a work conditioning type program.

At the present time, he does complain of significant pain and swelling as
related to the right knee. He is unable to crawl and/or kneel. He does state
he is able to walk a city block and in fact, he is able to do 20 minutes of a
treadmill. Stairs are a significant problem. His pain is a 5 to 6 on a scale
of 1 to 10.

He is better when he is resting, sitting, propped up, and utilizing his ice.
He is much worse when he is doing any type of physical activity.

He has denied having any previous history of similar problems.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Over-the-counter pain medication.

ALLERGIES: NKA.

SURGERIES: Numerous surgeries as related to the right lower extremity.

SOCIAL HISTORY: He does admit to one half pack of cigarette consumption
per day. He denies any alcohol consumption.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On examination today, he is 28-year-old male who is
6 feet 1, weighs 250 pounds. He does not appear to be in distress at this
time. One could appreciate 1-2/4 intraarticular effusion. The range of motion
is 0 to a 110 degrees of flexion. I could not appreciate any evidence of
instability medial, lateral, anterior or posterior. Crepitus is noted with
regards to range of motion testing. His strength is 4 to 5 as related to the
quadriceps and hamstring.

There is atrophy as related to the right thigh. The patient is able to stand
from a seated position and sit from a standing position without difficulty.

RECORDS REVIEW:  
1. First report of injury.  
2. July 17, 2002, x-rays of the right knee were negative.  
3. Notes of the Medina General Hospital Occupational Health, Steven Rodgers,
M.D.  
4. August 5, 2002, an MRI scan of the right knee which demonstrated
peripheral tear of the posterior horn of the medial meniscus, minimal joint
effusion, without evidence of ligamentous disruption.  
5. A number of notes of the office Mark M. Musgrave, M.D.  
6. August 30, 2002, operative note of Mark M. Musgrave, M.D., procedure would
be arthroscopic chondroplasty of the medial compartment of the right knee.  
7. MRI scan, November 12, 2002 - impression, __________ without evidence of
meniscal and/or ligamentous injury.  
8. Evaluation of Dr. Y  
9. Operative note of January 17, 2003, right anterior cruciate ligament
reconstruction utilizing hamstring allograft - Mark Musgrave, M.D.  
10. October 15, 2003, MRI scan of the right knee demonstrated satisfactory
appearance of the anterior cruciate ligament graft. No acute process was
identified.  
11. May 19, 2004, operative note, revision arthroscopic anterior cruciate
ligament utilizing tibialis anterior ligament. Arthroscopic medial
meniscectomy.  
12. MRI report of September 16, 2004, which demonstrates operative changes
from the anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction without tear. There was no
evidence of medial and/or lateral meniscal pathology.  
13. Independent medical examination of Dr. Z  
14. Independent medical examination, Dr. A  
15. March 17, 2008, operative note, harvesting patellar tendon graft and
revision previous arthroscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction,
right knee.  
16. Operative note, February 6, 2006, at which time examination under
anesthesia, __________ arthroscopy, joint lavage, and debridement of anterior
cruciate ligament tear, right stump.  
17. Independent medical examination - occupational health.

ASSESSMENT: Please review the records forwarded to you and thereafter
please undertake your usual thorough physical examination of this patient.
Please prepare a report directed to my attention and addressing the following
issues.

QUESTION: Based upon the examination of the claimant, review of the
records, information, experience, and expertise, has the claimant reached
maximum medical improvement with respect to the allowed conditions in this
claim?

ANSWER: It is my opinion based upon the allowed condition in the claim
that the injured worker has indeed maximum medical improvement.

QUESTION: In your opinion, based upon review of the records and your
examination of the claimant, your experience and expertise, what if any,
further treatment is reasonably related and medically necessary with respect
to the allowed conditions in the claim?

ANSWER: The injured worker has undergone a right total knee replacement
arthroplasty in December 2008. This procedure has corrected the instability
that was indeed present.

Based upon the allowed conditions of the claim, no further treatment is
medically necessary and reasonably related with respect to the allowed
conditions of the claim. Any treatment that he does indeed receive will be for
non-allowed conditions.

QUESTION: In your opinion, based upon review of the records, your
examination of the claimant, and your experience and expertise, is it
medically necessary and reasonably related to the allowed conditions for the
claimant to have a functional capacity evaluation at this time?

ANSWER: Based upon the allowed conditions of the claim, it is not
reasonably necessary and appropriate and reasonably related to the allowed
conditions for the claimant to have a functional capacity evaluation.

QUESTION: If you feel that functional capacity evaluation is medically
necessary in this claim, does this affect your opinion with regards to maximum
medical improvement and if so, how?

ANSWER: Once again, it is my opinion that a functional capacity evaluation
is not medically necessary and/or reasonable related to the allowed conditions
of the claim.

As mentioned, the injured worker has indeed reached maximum medical
improvement for the allowed conditions of the claim. There is really no
indication for a functional capacity evaluation based upon the allowed
conditions of the claim etc.

This information is based upon review of the medical records, independent
medical examination performed. If you have any further questions as related to
this evaluation, please feel free to contact my office.