

REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Recurrent abscesses in the thigh, as well as the
pubic area for at least about 2 years.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: A 23-year-old female who is approximately 5
months ' pregnant, who has had recurrent abscesses in the above-mentioned
areas. She would usually have pustular type of lesion that would eventually
break and would be quite painful. The drainage would be malodorous. It would
initially not be infected as far as she knows, but then could eventually
become infected. She stated that this first started after she had her first
born about 2 years ago. She had recurrences of these abscesses and had pain,
actually hospitalized at Hospital approximately a year and a half ago for
about 1-1/2 months. She was treated with multiple courses of antibiotics. She
had biopsies done. She was seen by Dr. X. Reportedly, she had a HIV test done
that was negative. She had been seen by a dermatologist who said that she had
a problem with her sweat glands. She has been on multiple courses of
antibiotics. She never had any fevers. She has pain, drainage, and reportedly
there was some bleeding in the area of the perineum/vaginal area.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  
1. History of recurrent abscesses in the perineum, upper medial thigh, and
the vulva area for about 2 years. Per her report, a dermatologist had told her
that she had an overactive sweat gland, and I believe she probably has
hidradenitis suppurativa. Probably, she has had Staphylococcus infection
associated with it as well.  
2. Reported history of asthma.

GYNECOLOGIC HISTORY: G3, P1. She is currently 5 months ' pregnant.

ALLERGIES: None.

MEDICATIONS: Her medication had been Augmentin.

SOCIAL HISTORY: She is followed by a gynecologist in Bartow. She is not an
alcohol or tobacco user. She is not married. She has a 2-year-old child.

FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient has been complaining of diarrhea about 5 or
6 times a day for several weeks now.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION  
GENERAL: The patient is a pleasant female lying in bed in no acute distress.  
VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 97.4, pulse 78, respirations 18, and blood pressure
81/49.  
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation.  
HEART: Regular rhythm.  
ABDOMEN: Soft.  
GENITAL AREA: There are some multiple scars and some tender indurated areas in
her pubic area. There appears to be a tender area in the right
inguinal/perineal area that is draining clear fluid. I do not see any obvious
blood. There are multiple scars in the inguinal fold area as well as the upper
medial thigh. I do not see any obvious active fluctuant lesion.

LABORATORY DATA: WBC count is 13.9, hemoglobin 11.1, and platelets
291,000. BUN 7, creatinine 0.7, and glucose 80.

IMPRESSION:  
1. Recurrent hidradenitis suppurativa, which sometimes may become
superinfected with skin organisms when it ruptures and drains. It is
essentially overactive sebaceous glands that become abscess. In the past,
Accutane has been used. Obviously, she cannot get this. I do not know what new
treatments are available by dermatologist. I usually refer these patients to
dermatologist. I do not think she has an obvious current abscessed lesion,
although there is some drainage. She has been on Augmentin for 1 month.  
2. Diarrhea in a patient who had been on Augmentin for 1 month. Need to rule
out Clostridium difficile colitis.  
3. Mild leukocytosis.  
4. Intrauterine pregnancy, 5 months' pregnant.

PLAN: Would not continue antibiotics when the patient is discharged since
the patient would be at increased risk for developing resistant organisms as
well as developing side effects such as Clostridium difficile colitis. Check
Clostridium difficile toxin. I agree about trying to arrange for whirlpool
therapy as an outpatient since plain sitz bath is not working currently. Refer
to dermatologist as an outpatient.