

CHIEF COMPLAINT: "I have had trouble breathing for the past 3 days"

HISTORY: 69-year-old Caucasian male complaining of difficulty breathing
for 3 days. He also states that he has been coughing accompanying with low-
grade type fever. He also admits to having intermittent headaches and
bilateral chest pain that does not radiate to upper extremities and jaws but
worse with coughing. Patient initially had this type of episodes about 10
months ago but has intermittently getting worse since.

PMH: DM, HTN, COPD, CAD

PSH: CABG, appendectomy, tonsillectomy

FH: Non-contributory

SOCH: Divorce and live alone, retired postal worker, has 3 children, 7
grandchildren. He smokes 1 pack a day of Newport for 30 years and is a social
drinker. He denies any illicit drug use.

TRAVEL HISTORY: Denies any recent travel overseas

ALLERGIES: Denies any drug allergies

HOME MEDICATIONS: Advair 1 puff bid Lisinopril 10 mg qd Lopressor 50 mg
bid Aspirin 81 mg qd Plavix 75 mg qd Multivitamins Feso4 1 tab qd Colace 100
mg qd

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS REVEALS: Same as above

PHYSICAL EXAM:  
Vital signs are: Temp. 99.3 F / BP 138/92, Resp. 22, P 88  
General: Patient is in mild acute respiratory distress  
HEENT:  
Head: Atraumatic, normocephalic,  
Eyes: Conjunctiva clear; pupils 3 mm in size, EOMI, PERLLA  
Ears: Tympanic membranes are pearly gray; no TM inflammation or perforation.  
Nose: Nasal congestion with thick yellow rhinorrhea; swollen, erythematous
nasal turbinates; septum midline  
Throat: Pharyngeal erythema; post-nasal drainage; tonsils mildly enlarged;
there are no pustules, ulcers or exudate.  
Face: Symmetrical; no maxillary or frontal sinus tenderness  
Neck: Supple, no anterior or posterior cervical lymphadenopathy; thyroid is
not palpable; trachea is midline; no JVD  
Heart: regular rhythm; normal S1 and S2; no S3 or S4; no murmurs, gallops or
rubs.  
Lungs: Bi-basilar crackles left > right, diffuse wheezes.  
Abdomen: No distention; no tenderness to palpation; no masses or organomegaly;
bowel sounds present in four quadrants; no bruits auscultated; no inguinal
adenopathy.  
Extremities: Warm, strong pulses throughout  
Neuro: Moving all extremities well, 2+/4 reflexes throughout.

OSTEOPATHIC STRUCTURAL EXAM: He has bilateral paravertebral spasm, greater
on the right, T10-L5. The spine is flattened T10-L2. Generalized restriction
of the lumbar to spring towards rotation and sidebending both directions.
Restriction to extension (restriction to anterior spring) T10-L3. Articular
restriction is greatest T10-12. T4 ESrRr, T2 FSlRl. Twelfth ribs held in
exhalation at an extremely acute angle static with respiration. Ribs 8-10 are
held in inhalation bilaterally. 1st and 2nd ribs are elevated on the right
with right clavicle elevated. The left 2nd rib is held in exhalation and there
is bogginess to the tissues in the area of the second ribs. The thorax has
general restriction to exhalation. The diaphragm was extremely tense and
depressed with virtually no discernable movement during respiration.