

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Left wrist pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT PROBLEM: The patient has a previous history of a left
traumatic wrist injury, which has left him with a chronic scapholunate problem
and possibly other problems in his wrist. However, he was doing relatively
fine and tolerating the wrist soreness that he had, which is day to day, but
it has not gotten much worse until this injury. Once he lifted the object out
of the back of his car and it started to hurt, then he was significantly more
affected than he was before, and now pain is more on the ulnar side of his
wrist than on the radial side of his wrist. He is here now for evaluation.

CLINICAL/PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
Musculoskeletal: The patient has point tenderness to palpation along the ulnar
styloid ECU ridge with some minor tenderness at the TFC region, as well as the
lunotriquetral joint. There is some minor soreness, but not nearly as sore at
the SL ligament with dorsiflexion 30째, palmar flexion 30째, radial deviation 5째
and ulnar deviation 0째. Supination/pronation grossly intact without
significant signs of instability. Negative piano key sign compared to the
contralateral side.  
Skin: No skin breakdown or hyperhidrosis.  
Neurologic: Negative signs of compressive median nerve neuropathy.  
Vascular: Intact.

RADIOLOGICAL/LABORATORY EXAM: X-rays, three views of the wrist of good
penetrance and quality, reveal scapholunate widening of a slack wrist with a
possible ulnar styloid nonunion, with a possible occult distal radius fracture
fibrous union. MRI report reviewed.

EVALUATION/TREATMENT PLAN: The MRI is consistent with edema and swelling
in the ulnar styloid region, which is consistent with the injury pattern that
he is claiming and where he is most sore. He has a chronic problem that needs
to potentially be addressed. Sometimes with these acute on chronic problems,
what was tolerated initially may no longer be tolerated by the patient, which
we talked about. Our focus still should be on the initial injury which brought
him in at this time. It is a three-week-old injury. Given the MRI, we probably
have seen on radiographs a fibrous union between that ulnar styloid and the
remaining portion of the ulna, which may have been torn or injured, especially
consistent with the MRI. Therefore, I would cast him initially to get that to
heal, and then reassess. All questions were answered, and we will make the
treatment plans accordingly. He will followup in two weeks. We casted him.